
there is no "matrix"; there are fetarues, and it works more or less like the classic way. further you can not have such comfortable site rules without the features. they are an essential part of the whole project. and it also does not make the project faster without the features. the problem is -- as i already explained 3 times -- that the python regex-library is one of the slowest regex-libraries in the wild. but it makes a lot more work for the programming to do if you dont use features, then you could not configure that much in the general.cfg and would have to write much more code and for each change you would have to change the code too, not only the general.cfg. in my opinion it is more like the German: "Maske 23" from projectmanager class at ETH; I will explain so you dont have search for that topic: "There was a software project with an mask to enter data. The people asked the developer to redesign the complete application because it was very ugly to enter the name of a customer into the mask. you had to copy and paste from another mask. When the develper was told to redesign the app he was very sad, because if the user would have read the manual they would have seen that they can just press F5 in the mask to select from the names from the other mask. so there was no need for a redesign the software but for the need for courses how to use the software. since you both bor1s and stalefish often say unspecific thins like "matrix" or "classic" I guess it is also something like that. and also for example the thing that stalefish said that the tester from phase complained about how to change eg group:() in the irc/client would have been described in the help file if anybody would read it. and if it is just that, then this synthax can easily be changed without changing the whole project. so if you would like to do something different, then please please explain me what you would like to do different. otherwise it does not make sense to discuss changes. so that is why i asked for >detailed< suggestions. that means if you would like to have the app without features, then you would have to explain >detail< how you would like parse the site configs then. what i beleive is that you didn't understand how to use it, so in this case it would not make sense to completey redesign the project if we could solve that with a more help text (that i asked you to write 3 months ago) or with a more detailed an explanation. and shrikey also said, that you dont feel comfortable with the changes of cbftp, but as i said 3 months ago, there is a patch that will patch it and this patch adds a lot of functionality to cbftp and makes a lot easyer and more configurable. i feel like you both do a "haha it is slow, because of that we can now force landev to do what we say" not thinking about the fact that i spent about 1Month in front of the computer to tweak the principle we work. further you will anyway need a developer since there are also in my app cirumstances where there are changes in the source needed. for me its sounds more like distrust in my abilities since i told that i suffer from schizophrenia. and python (with the slow regex-library was ok with the 500ms that shrikey gave me when i started the project. at least on my computer, and in 99% of the cases. fear (i mean the cbftp thing) comes from the distrust in the own abilities. but it is really not a big change so i will explain more detailed.

cbftp original
has sections like TV.SE, you need to specifically pass this very special section to cbftp that it works, TV.SE.720p would not work without a second directory

cbftp modified
gets just longer sections like TV.SE.720p.EN.Action and then matches the nearest rule

when you remember i wanted to do a lot of documentation and domain models to describe each specific algorithm, but you both were not interested in documentation, but already asked for another 100 changes if you look at the closed issues. and further these things are sticked into the project and also makes it a lot slower, for example your tmdb also costs time. so since you ignored my "we should do domain models" and all things i said in the very beginning you have no other possibility to read and undestand the code since you did not wanted to work with domain models as i suggested. and do you remember how many times i said that there should be a second person that understands the code? do you remember when i asked you to do the unit-tests in the hope that you then would read and understand the code? have you seen how much effort i took in adding a lot of comments?

this whole text took me 1+h to write, so please read carefully so this is time i loose in rewriting it in c++. so please dont come with things like "less like matrix" more like "whatever". if you would have things different, then please be concret and explain me where and how you want things make different. and yes this requires that you understand what i did so far. i'm not mad or something like that but a bit frustrated because you both, but i'm not angry, shrikey and i talked yesterday a few hours.
