A 1581 Write Stuff Boot Disk

by Dick Estel

The new Write Stuff with the spellchecker has provided some interesting challenges. At first I was not
entirely enthralled with BB Speller, since it seemed fairly slow. When you call up the spell checker, it
loads each of a number of modules in turn, checks the words in that module and presents a list of words
for possible correction. After you correct or accept the words, it moves on to the next module. This
seemed to take a long time, but of course the instructions said it would.

I therefore decided I would have to sit down with the book and master the capability of loading the
modules into the RAM expansion unit, where, I was assured, a one-page document could be checked
in three seconds.

Thus began an odyssey of file-copying and program modifying that took about four hours total. The
result was well worth it--a 1581 disk that autoboots, copies the dictionary modules into the REU, and
loads TWS in a minute and 39 seconds with no user intervention after turning on the C128.

Spell-checking is very quick with this set-up--the change from one module to another is virtually
instantaneous. The time consuming part is making the corrections, and how much time this takes
depends on your typing and spelling skills. With three deliberately misspelled words scattered
throughout the alphabet, five questionable words that were spelled correctly (but are not in the
dictionary), and three unintentionally misspelled words, it took one minute and 47 seconds to check and
correct this document, which would run about two pages if printed out in normal 8 1/2 x 11 format. 

These changes are designed for using the 1581 as drive 8, the REU as drive 10 and any 15X1 drive as
drive 9. Here are the step-by-step instructions which I followed.

1. Be sure you have made a back-up copy of your disk!
2. From the back (Program) side of the BB Speller disk, LOAD the file "BB", but do not RUN
it--SAVE it to a DIFFERENT disk (this can be 1581, 1571 or 1541).
3. Load the file "RAM FC" and modify it as follows:
Line 20 - change U=9 to U=10.
Line 60 - change RE=9 to RE=10.
Line 95 - delete this line or type REM at the beginning of it to render it inoperative (in case you want to
change it back some day).
Line 150 - delete this line or type REM at the beginning.
Line 151 - add this line as follows: GOTO 120.
Line 155 - delete this line or type REM at the beginning.
4. SAVE "RAM FC" to your DIFFERENT disk.
5. Copy all the files from the BACK side of your BB Speller disk (the program side) to a 1581 disk.
6. Copy all the files from the FRONT side of your BB Speller disk (the dictionary) to the same 1581
disk.
7. SCRATCH the file "RAM FC" from your 1581 copy.
8. File copy the modified version of RAM FC from your DIFFERENT disk to the 1581 disk.
9. LOAD and RUN "Auto-Boot 128" from your 1581 disk. When it prompts for the file name, enter
RAM FC. When it prompts for the program type select BASIC.
10. SCRATCH the file named "BB" from your 1581 copy.
11. File copy the original "BB" file from your DIFFERENT disk to the 1581 disk.

This should give you a bootable 1581 disk. Next you will want to set up the defaults to utilize the
dictionary in the REU. You could make various different choices here; this is how I did it.

12. LOAD the program, then tap [CONTROL] X; then select PRINTER CUSTOMIZER.
13. Next select DRIVES. Set the default for BBW Program as drive 8, and the small, large and "-U"
file as drive 10. OR, you can set "-U" file for either of the other drives (more on this later).
14. Now select SAVE DEFAULTS.
15. (Instruction 15 is for setting up drives when your second drive is a 1541 without a device number
change switch.) When you return to the normal edit screen, tap [CONTROL][SHIFT] D. Select
CHANGE 8->9. Turn off both drives. Turn on the 1541 and press [RETURN], then turn on the other
drive. When switching from drive to drive you can tap [CONTROL] [SHIFT] D and select drive a (8),
b (9) or c (10). If you have turned keyboard macros on, you can also hold down the Commodore logo
key and press z to switch between drive 8 and 9. If doing this prints a graphic character at the cursor
position, turn on keyboard macros as follows: Tap [CONTROL]; hold [COMMODORE] key and
press K. There will be a message at the bottom telling whether keyboard macros are on or off.

When you use the spell checker, you will probably be adding words (such as your name and Fresno)
that are not in the dictionary. These are added to the file named "-u." Using the set-up described above,
the changes are added to "-u" in the REU. You must remember to load "-u" from drive 10 and save it to
the 1581 program disk before turning off the power.

There are times you may wish to bypass the spellchecker. This could be during the early stages of a
document which you expect to work on again. On the disk created as described here you can bypass
the dictionary modules as follows:

A. Turn on your system.
B. Insert the 1581 boot disk into the drive.
C. Type RUN"BB". This will load the word processor program without copying any dictionary files into
the REU.

It may seem unnecessary to scratch and recopy the "BB" file. Perhaps it is; this is how I had to do it to
get everything to work right. I suggest that you temporarily bypass this step and if everything works,
forget it. In step 4 above, changing lines 20 and 60 causes the REU to be drive 10. You could skip
those changes and it would be drive 9. This is what you would want to do if you have no REU and you
want to use the 1581 for your spell checker. The other changes merely cause the program to bypass
several GET statements that prompt you to insert the dictionary disk and then the program disk, since
all the files are together on one 1581 disk.

From The Interface, newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group, via the Commodore Information
Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html
