Vintage Computer Show 1997 (Part I)

by Robert Bernardo

Rewind to the past...1992--my best friend and I travel to Washington, D.C., in celebration of our
knowing each other for 25 years. Ostensibly, one of our major objectives is to get to the Smithsonian
Air and Space Museum and view the massive 25th anniversary Star Trek exhibit. For a day and a half
we wander through the miniature and full-size displays of prop-driven biplanes and monoplanes,
jetcraft, Mercury and Apollo capsules, and Enterprise and Klingon starships. In our remaining time, we
try to hit the other Smithsonian Museums. We move fast; in one, which I will dub the Science and
Technology Museum, we come across an exhibit of computing history. There are photographs of
Babbage's calculating machine of the 1840's and the ENIAC computer of the 1950's, an actual (but
older version of the) Cray computer of modern times, various interactive games which demonstrate
how a computer works, and for me, the piece de resistance--a line-up of the machines which started
the home computer trend.

There is Steve Job's homemade Apple I computer, complete with handmade, varnished, wood case
covering the electronics. There is a Tandy TRS-80 computer. Next to it is an Atari 400 computer.
However, the one that attracts my attention is the brown, "breadbox" Commodore 64! The C-64...
part of the Smithsonian collection! I whip out my camera and snap a picture as it lays proudly on its
display stand.

Fast forward to 1997...I'm cruising through comp.sys.cbm on the Internet, and an October
announcement attracts my attention . The first annual Vintage Computer Festival will be at the Alameda
County fairgrounds in Pleasanton in a few days. Not only will there be a flea market and historical
exhibition but also guest speakers talking about hardware and software preservation, bulletin board
systems, older operating systems, and computer history here on the West Coast.

There is not much lead time. Though the emphasis at the festival this time is to be on Apple II's, I
reason that Commodore users should be a presence. I e-mail the organizer, asking that if there is
second annual festival, he should consider an emphasis on Commodore computers. I telephone the
presidents of the Commodore Hayward Users Group (CHUG) and the Fremont-Union City-Newark,
Hayward User Group (FUNHUG). I only get the answering machine of FUNHUG president, Ed Hart;
I leave a message telling of the festival but never receive a call back. CHUG president, George Palmer,
is at home, but he reasons that his members won't have the time to make it there.

O.K., if the Bay Area groups can't make it there, then I as a representative of FCUG will attend. After
a Friday night at my parent's house in Stockton, I drive off to Pleasanton, a little more than an hour
away. I arrive in the area and circle the fairgrounds, looking for the correct entrance. Finally, I find the
entrance and head for the buildings. I'm surprised; the festival has rented two large buildings-- one for
the exhibit/flea market and the other for the guest speakers. Another surprise--though the building for
the guest speakers has seats for hundreds of audience members, I count at most 50 people wandering
around the festival. I pay my $10 to attend all activities, and I walk into the exhibit/flea market building.
There is plenty to see; as mentioned in the VCF web page, "all items will be a minimum of 10 years old.
No modern PC clones here...just good old classic computers."

A few tables down I see my friend, Larry Anderson, and his wife, Diane Hare. Larry runs the Silicon
Realms BBS (209 754-1363), a board devoted to Commodore. He shows me around the room, his
table, and the computers on exhibit. There are quite a few; from the Commodore viewpoint, VIC-20,
various PET's, SX-64, C-128, Amiga 500, and Amiga 1000 systems are on display. Oh, yes, there are
Apples, Ataris, Bally, Callan, Compaqs, CompuPros, and other well-known and unknown platforms.

I buy some Commodore software from Larry and another gentleman, but the guest speakers are the
most interesting. James Willing speaks about how he began one of the first BBS's, Marvin Johnston tells
about Santa Barbara and the microcomputer revolution of the 1970's, Bill Fernandez relates the birth of
Apple, and Edwin El-Kareh talks about his organization, the Computer History Association of
California (CHAC). Edwin is especially fervent in furthering the "excavation, conservation,
preservation, renovation, and fenestration" of vintage computers. He bemoans the fact that society
doesn't value older technology, that the history of individuals and companies in the computer industry is
being forgotten. He says that California has no central museum, no central repository to hold these
computers, these stories, these memories. Right now CHAC has several buildings which hold historical
computing hardware, but they are not climate-controlled. He does have a few tips for us
individuals--archive your items in those large, "tupperware-style" boxes, and remove the paper
packaging (such packaging promotes infestation).

What is the connection between Commodore at the Smithsonian Institution and Commodore at the
Vintage Computer Festival? It's the matter of perspective. We Commodore users can be considered
collectors in the hobby of classic computer collecting. We Commodore users can be considered
preservationists who retain the history of the past computer generation. When we use our
Commodores, we are using historical items. Our Commodores have a history, from the early days
when Commodore made business machines through the successful, heady days of the 1980's to the
grass-roots efforts of nowadays. It would be a shame to destroy history by dumping our machines into
a wastebin. It would be a shame to forget our computer heritage by trashing our Commodores. I for
one have no intention in forgetting my heritage; this year marks my fifteenth year in using
Commodores...and I will use them for many more to come.

From The Interface, newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group, via the Commodore Information
Center, http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html
