Technology Report

Announcing the new Built-in Orderly Organized Knowledge device called BOOK.     

The "BOOK" is a revolutionary breakthrough in technology. No wires, no electric circuits, no batteries,
nothing to be connected or switched on.

Its so easy to use even a child can operate it. Just lift its cover! Compact and portable, it can be used
anywhere - even sitting in an armchair by the fire - yet it is powerful enough to hold as much information
as a CD-ROM disc. 

Here's how it works. Each BOOK is specially constructed of sequentially numbered sheets of paper
(recyclable), each capable of holding thousands of bits of information. These pages are locked together
with a custom-fit device called a binder which keeps the sheets in their correct sequence. Opaque
Paper Technology (OPT) allows manufacturers to use both sides of the sheet, doubling the information
density and cutting costs in hall.      

Experts are divided on the prospects for further increases in information density; for now BOOKs with
more information simply use more pages. This makes them thicker and harder to carry, and has drawn
some criticism from the mobile computing crowd. Each sheet is scanned optically, registering
information directly into your brain. A flick of the finger takes you to the next sheet. The BOOK may
be taken up at any time and used by merely opening it. The BOOK never crashes and never needs
rebooting, though like other display devices it can become unstable if dropped overboard. The
"browse" feature allows you to move instantly to any sheet, and move forward or backward as you
wish.

Many come with an "index" feature, which pinpoints the exact location of any selected information for
instant retrieval. 

An optional "BOOKmark" accessory allows you to open the BOOK to the exact place you left it in a
previous session - even if the BOOK has been closed. BOOKmarks fit universal design standards,
thus, a single BOOKmark can be used in BOOKs by various manufacturers. Conversely, numerous
bookmarkers can be used in a single BOOK if the user wants to store numerous views at once. The
number is limited only by the number of pages in the BOOK.  

The media is ideal for long term archive use; several field trials have proven that the media will still be
readable in several centuries, and because of its simple user interface it will be compatible with future
reading devices.    

You can also make personal notes to BOOK text entries with an optional programming tool, the
Portable Eraseable Nib Cryptic Intercommunication Language Stylus (PENCILS). 

Portable, durable, and affordable, the BOOK is being hailed as the entertainment wave of the future.
The BOOK's appeal seems so certain that thousands of content creators have committed to the
platform. Look for a flood of new titles soon. 

(From the CEBUG Chronicle newsletter of the Commodore East Brunswick Users Group, September
1998, via the Commodore Information Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)