CIC Company Profile


It was the 80’s. Things were changing. From now on not only would we have to take computers seriously but we would all soon have to bring them in our homes. Spooky. Well, things seemed different back then.

Imagine the chaos of a bunch of computer upstarts scrambling for market share. One brand, one logo, stood out and grew to become recognized, trusted and loved by the public: Commodore. In fact, even to this day no modern computer has outsold the legendary C64.

Like Manchester United, Levis, BBC, New York Yankees and others, Commodore is one of those iconic names that have inspired such fierce loyalty in so many people that you can scarcely imagine a world without them. That’s why we are proud to reinstate the name of Commodore.

Today, we want to reunite the color and richness of a historic brand with the hot competitive world of the demanding modern digital user. We want to connect retro hints of a stylish age to futuristic design concepts. Commodore International Corporation is determined to stay loyal to its rich heritage, while at the same time taking the brand into an exciting new direction. Commodore is aspirational, imaginative, magnetic, open and passionate.

Commodore’s objective is to become a key player in the digital distribution of hardware and content markets. We are expanding our operations in Europe and are planning to expand into US markets in 2006. We are committed to the development of inspiring, advanced and accessible products, providing innovative integration of digital content and hardware for the mobile device as well as the home entertainment market. Recent product developments include the Commodore MediaBox and the Commodore MediaTower.

The Commodore MediaBox is a seriously complete HDD recorder with a server based solution for interactive services. The unit is a complete service centre which not only enables consumers to access their personal content via TV, but also offers them a wide range of services including, but not limited to, a Music Store and Video on Demand. The MediaBox also offers retailers and other partners a new distribution platform for e.g. Last Minute Travel Bookings, Concert Tickets, Photo Printing Service and many other applied technologies.

The MediaTower is forging digital music, mobile phone ring tones, games and wallpapers into a single store-friendly kiosk, making it possible for customers to walk up and download all types of legal digital media to portable devices.

Commodore International Corporation is dedicated to re-awaken Commodore into the eyes of the technology consumer. The company is committed to develop products and services which allow extensive personalization, customization and sharing functionalities. The strategy is to re-ignite Commodore’s ideology of the Open Community in new products, services as well as communication concepts. Our tag-line “Reunite” enlists the power and energy of a dynamic group of people who benefit from each others input and ideas, who share information and interests and love imaging the future together.


COMPANY FACTS

July 2004: Yeahronimo Media Ventures Inc is created by two parent companies
December 2004: YMV Inc stock listed at Nasdaq OTC
March 2005: YMV Inc acquires 100% of Commodore International BV
May 2005: Commodore closes European distribution deal with SupportPlus
September 2005: Commodore returns to the Electronic Gaming Market by closing JV deal
September 2005: Commodore showcases MediaTower and MediaBox at IFA, Hamburg, Germany
October 2005: CIC announces plans to acquire 100% of hardware distributor SupportPlus
October 2005: YMV Inc changed its name to “Commodore International Corporation”
December 2005: CIC acquires 100% of Lyzla Digital Solutions
January 2005: Commodore showcases new products at CES, Las Vegas, USA

Commodore International Corp. European Headoffice
Hermesweg 15
3741 GP BAARN
The Netherlands
Phone +31 35 528 8150
Fax +31 35 528 8151
E-mail: press@commodoreworld.com
Web: www.commodoreworld.com

Commodore International Corp. Headquarters
1875 CENTURY PARK EAST, Suite 2150
Los Angeles, CA 90067, USA 
Phone +1 310 226 6744
Fax +1 310 226 6741




