Doublesiding: Thrifty or Foolhardy?

by Reggie Ramloose


The good news is that, due to the rising sales of computers, the price of diskettes is falling. The bad
news is that the near future is likely to bring higher prices for paper supplies.  However, if you still use
the old No. 2 bonded lead word processor, I have some useful information: You can double-side your
notebook paper!

Although paper manufacturers only certify the "front side" of a piece of paper, it is a little-known fact
that the back side is capable of holding the same amount of written information.  You, too, can use the
back side of your paper.  But before you do, I must warn you there are mixed feelings about doing so.

Paper manufacturers are quick to warn that writing on the back side can cause problems for the data
on both sides of the paper, and will not honor warranties if the back side has been used.  The biggest
problem is "write-through."  This occurs if the wrong pen or pencil is used, or if too much pressure is
applied during the writing process.  There is a problem with standardization, also, with some users
turning the paper upside down when writing on the back, and others leaving it right side up.  (If the
paper is held upside down during the reading process, it will be in the wrong alignment to the head, and
a read error will occur).  Also many public school teachers, publishers, and governmental offices frown
on the practice of using the back of the paper, and will not accept material if both sides of the paper
have been used.

Students and other paper users, however, claim they have used the backs of many thousands of pages
with little or no loss of data.  A few go so far as to say that there is a conspiracy among paper
manufacturers, merchandisers, and public officials to discourage the use of the backs.

You must decide yourself if you will use the back side of your paper.  But if you decide to give it a go,
here's how:

Look at the sheet of paper.  You can tell the front by several methods.  First, the row of alignment holes
goes toward the left.  Secondly, the watermark can be read if you hold the paper up to a light.  To
double-side a sheet, turn it over.  Examine the back, looking especially for obvious flaws and defects. 
If the overall appearance is satisfactory, then with a ruler and pen, mark locations on the left side
corresponding to the holes which are now on the right side. (You should try this initially with paper
containing no valuable data.)  Use a regular hole punch to make the holes.  (You can buy a hole punch
at a department store, but I don't recommend that you tell them what you plan to use it for.)

Your paper is now double-sided.  Good luck!

from NCUG via Commodore Users Group of Atlanta, February 1990, via The Commodore
Information Center web site (http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html) 
