Getting on eBay With Your Commodore

By Marge Weller

If you want to use your C-64/C-128 to get on the World Wide Web to see the eBay auction and its
Commodore listings, maybe I can offer some helpful tips to get you there in six easy steps. These
suggestions are for Commodore users with shell accounts which have online access to the Lynx
(text-only web browser).

Before you start, you can open a capture buffer and later, off-line, review where you've been. If your
results are anything like I get using Desterm, it won't be a lot of help. Still, I would suggest you go
ahead and open a big buffer in your term program. Then proceed as follows:

1. Log onto your ISP and from any menu select or type: "!lynx" and RETURN. (Type only the things
inside the quotes, not the quotes themselves.) This gets you onto the Web. (Ed. note: Some ISPs will
have a menu selection for Web access.) While browsing, you will see things like "[INLINE]" and other
non-familiar prompts, but they are not for Commodore users, so just ignore them. The several lines of
commands at the bottom of the screen are the Lynx text browser commands.

2. To access any web site using Lynx, type go or just "g" and you will see, highlighted: URL to open:
Enter the site address and RETURN. In this case it is, http://www.ebay.com (all lowercase). This will
bring up the eBay auction, with a list of categories, beginning with antiques. Cursor down to Computers
(#####) and press RETURN.

3. You will then have a chance to search for a sub-category. Type "commodore" on the blank line and
RETURN. (Lynx isn't very case-sensitive, so lowercase for everything usually works.) Below that will
be a couple of options to search only in computers, or search titles and descriptions. For now ignore
these options and just press RETURN when the highlight is on Search. This will bring up the first group
of 50 or so Commodore items.

4. At the upper right corner of the screen you'll see (page 1 of xx). Each page contains a group of
listings. The listings may not start on the first page. You may see Search Results and some headers for
the listings near the bottom of page one: i.e., Item# Item Price Bids Ends. Jot down or keep these
headers in mind as you use the space bar to go to the 2nd page, where the listings will begin. (There
may be several hundred Commodore items listed, so expect to see a lot of them!) At the end of each
group of listings, you will see these options: Go to top of page gets you to the beginning of that group,
and Next brings up the next group. Highlight your choice and press RETURN. 

5. Generally, you can use the following keys for browsing: Up and Down cursors to get around on the
screen and move the highlight bar. Use Return or Right Cursor to select a highlighted item. Lower
keyboard cursors work fine. The minus key (-) lets you go back to previous page when you're reading
beyond page one of a multi-page section. Space bar to go to the next page. Sometimes there's a
prompt at the bottom of the screen to remind you of this, but not always. There is no need to cursor, or
move the highlight, to the bottom of a page before going to the next page. Inst/Del key to bring up your
History page, which helps if you get lost while browsing. This will show every link you've used to get
where you are, and lets you go back to any previous branching place just by highlighting it and pressing
RETURN. It is a very useful feature.

Type "q" at any time to quit Lynx and the WWW, and get back to your ISP's main menu.

Happy browsing and good luck on the Web! 

(from LUCKY report, via Colorado Commodore Computer Club, via ?Syntax, Commodore Houston
Users Group, June-July 2000, via the Commodore Information Center,
http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)
