FunGraphics Machine V6.6

By Jack Blewitt, Commodore User's Public Information Discourse

For users of The FunGraphics Machine the first update in over two years was recently released and
should be available in your local club library. FGM is perhaps the best graphic manipulator available to
the Commodore enthusiasts and now prints even faster than ever. What does this new update do?
Actually, there are two options on this revision.

First, if you use any Epson compatible or Gemini 10X printer, you can now use the GEOcable with
your FunGraphics Machine for vastly increased speed and reliability. Previously, this cable could only
be used with GEOS and (as I understand) some specialized fast load cartridges. The GEOcable
actually replaces your parallel interface and sends data directly from your favorite computer to the
printer's Centronics connection.

To insure your printer is compatible with all of your software you may wish to be able to select either
your standard parallel printer interface or the GEOcable. You may want to add an A/B Data switch
box to your configuration. This is a simple process and relatively inexpensive. A simple switch rotation
will instantly select your print path. GEOcable may be purchased from Creative Micro Designs, Inc. for
$29 plus $5 shipping (CMD 800 638 3263). One good source for the switch box and connecting cable
would be JDR Micro-devices (800 538 5000). The Data Switchbox (#RSP) is only $9.95 and the six
foot CEN36P to CEN36P cable (#CBL-CNT- MM) runs $14.95. Shipping is about $5 for the two
items.

The second option of the FGM update V6.6 is designed for the Epson 24-pin printers. It allows
multi-printing which gives you an option of up to nine passes. This removes the "jaggies" and makes for
an exceptionally dense printout. Results are much like the GEOS Perfect Print program and take
additional time for each pass. Use of the GEOcable is highly recommended. Best results are obtained
using a weak ribbon or moving the print head out to its furthest position. This will help prevent ink
bleed-through caused by the multiple passes.

Another excellent feature of the Multi-Pass option is the selection of vertical density. Ron Hackley has
done an exhaustive study to determine which pins should strike the paper to produce the best results for
each vertical density. Normally, the pins are selected to emulate the 8-pin printer. Ron's selection
provides a clear, concise output. You can even select a l/72" density so the print is not elongated by
20% and gives the same dimensions as the 8-pin printer. Other vertical densities are available for
unique applications. It is well worth the few minutes it takes to update your pay version V6.x if you
have any use for the above options, or may be contemplating purchasing any of the hardware in the
future. Ron Hackley is one of the very few programmers still supporting the Commodore 8-bit users.
Watch for additional new innovations to keep the Commodore alive and growing. 

Via The Commodore Information Center web site (http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)
