Fixing Keyboards

by Rolf Miller

I recently acquired a 128 from one who gave up Commodore use in favor of a bigger PC.  To be fair,
switching in some instances is logical.  But it didn't make sense to me in this case.  The user is now
wrestling with learning the new machine to accomplish exactly the same work previously done with the
Commodore. 

When I come to possess cast-off equipment, checking it out is the next order of business.  Hooking up
this machine quickly revealed an all but nonfunctioning keyboard.  In other words, the previous user is
now learning how to make that bigger PC do what he could no longer get done on his Commodore. 

I don't know about you, but the joy of using my Commodores is directly related to how well the
keyboard works.  So I can understand the frustration this keyboard must have caused.  What I don't
understand is why the user didn't either clean it or install a replacement. Cleaning a keyboard is not
particularly difficult.  Yes, it does involve some soldering and fussing with a zillion little tiny screws. But
in spite of that, it can be accomplished in a couple of hours. 

However, keyboard surgery is not the only choice available. Excellent working used C128 keyboards
can be had for $29, including priority mail shipping to a U.S. address.  Likewise, a C64 keyboard is
$19.  A C64C keyboard is $24 (note that a C64 keyboard with its dark keys can be used in place of
the white C64C keyboard). 

Cleaning or replacing a keyboard requires opening up the computer.  So flip it over and remove the
securing screws (3 on the 64, 6 on the 128).  Turn it upright and separate the top case by lifting from
the front (the C64C and 128 may need some careful prying, and the 128 has a grounding strap
attached to the keyboard which needs to be removed from the motherboard).  

Unplug the keyboard along with the power light.  Unscrew the keyboard (on the original 64 and 128, it
is attached to the top case, and make note of how the power light on the 128 is secured.) If replacing
the keyboard, just exchange it, plug things back in, and button up. To clean it, unsolder the shift lock
key on the 64 and additionally the caps lock and 40/80 column switches on the 128 (or just cut the
wires close to the solder).  Then remove all those little Phillips screws and lift the back off.  It looks like
a printed circuit board with little pads.  

A two-pronged carbonized rubber foot connected to the key shaft makes contact with these pads when
pressed. If a key needs replacing, do it now.  The keys consists of a key cap, a small spring, and the
afore mentioned key shaft with carbonized rubber foot attached.  To remove a key, pull the cap off (it
may require a little carefully prying up) and remove the rest of it from the keyboard.  Replace the
necessary parts and reassemble.  (Discarded keyboards are a good source for parts.) 

Clean all of the pads on the board with a cotton cloth and 91% isopropyl alcohol (not rubbing alcohol
-- it leaves a film).  On the 64, the pads should appear shiny.  On the 128, the pads are covered with
carbonized rubber and should appear dull.  Then carefully wipe all the carbon feet on the keys till any
shine is gone.  Do not use sand paper or other abrasives on either the pads or the key feet. Wisdom
suggests testing the results before reassembling everything.  So, do enough screws to hold the board
securely, and on the 128 resolder the 40/80 key.  Then plug the keyboard in, turn on, and press
EVERY key.  Note any key that needs work.  If recleaning does not solve the problem, rub a little
black pencil lead on both the contact pads and the two prongs of feet.

(From Homestead Commodore http://cbm.videocam.net.au/homestead/)