Coping With Font ID Numbers

by Dick Estel

Recently a co-worker of mine, Steve Jones, was sitting in the waiting room of his lawyer's office.
Another man was also waiting. The receptionist came to the door and called, "Steve Jones." Both men
stood up.

This is not a particularly unusual occurrence with a name like Jones, but it doesn't happen every day
either. All this is a roundabout way of pointing out the confusion that occurs because we have millions
of people in the world but relatively few names by which we are identified. To get around this, the
government and most of the businesses we deal with identify us by a unique number.

The same confusion can exist in the GEOS world when an application calls for a font. Sensibly, the
programmers at Berkeley Softworks identified fonts by number. Unfortunately, nothing was done to
prevent assignment of duplicate ID numbers. And since the maximum font ID number is decimal 1023,
duplication is inevitable as the number of fonts increases.

The situation was made worse by the method used by Arthur Dahm III's geoFont program to display
the font ID--it shows only the low byte (last two digits) of the four-digit hexadecimal ID number. This
forced font designers using this program to assign a number between 0000 and 00FF, which translates
to 0 to 255 in decimal. Thus four or five hundred fonts were created using only the first 255 available
ID numbers.

Most of the time the end user could care less what the font ID number is. You click on the desired font
name, and that's what you get. But if you have two fonts with the same ID number on your disk, GEOS
will use the first one, regardless of what you had in mind.

I first became aware of the profusion of duplicate ID numbers when I started compiling the GEOS Font
Resource Directory, which is essentially a printout of various fonts. In addition to showing users of the
directory what the font looked like, I wanted to list the ID, to help identify situations where two fonts
had the same number. At first I was not even aware that some editors display the ID in hex and some in
decimal, so I listed some incorrect ID numbers. Once this was sorted out, my next lesson was about the
situation with the two-digit numbers versus four-digit.

After I had learned all this, I started revising the index to my directory, to include a listing by decimal,
and a listing by correct four-digit hex numbers.

The tools I used for this were Jim Collette's Font Editor, which displays the number in decimal, and a
printed conversion table to determine the full hex number. This was a long, tedious process, but the
result was a listing of over 1,000 GEOS fonts with the (hopefully) correct decimal and hex ID numbers.
      
Some users of the Directory suggested that I become a clearing house for GEOS font ID numbers.
That is, I would assign unused ID numbers for new fonts. There are some obvious problems, not the
least of which is getting all those people making fonts to cooperate! So I declined this honor.

The best suggestions I can offer are these: If you are creating fonts, use decimal ID numbers of 300 and
above. This will greatly reduce the chances of duplication, although there are many fonts with these
numbers in the directory. At least you can avoid using numbers like 00AD (173) which has been used
at least 15 times or 0068 (104) which shows up six times in my directory. Also don't use 400, 500 or
1000, which have been assigned to a large number of fonts. By the way, you CAN'T assign an ID
number higher than FF with geoFont, since it will only accept two characters.

For users who have two favorite fonts with the same number, simply use a font editor or an ID edit
program to change the ID number. After all, even when you have over a thousand fonts available, as I
do, you probably will use only a dozen or so for most of your work. The early version of Jim Collette's
editor, 2.2, was available in the public domain when this article was first published. Although it does not
have all the features for creating and editing fonts that are found in the later commercial versions, it is
certainly adequate for changing ID numbers. There was also a PD ID edit program that runs from
BASIC.

The problem with ID number duplication has gone on too long to be undone. The best solution is to be
aware of it, and have the tools to change ID numbers where necessary.

(Via the Commodore Information Center, http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html; originally
published in 1990 by GeoWorld Magazines)
