GeoPaint Editing

by Dick Estel

One area where confusion can arise in discussing geoPaint is the fact that there are two different
meanings to the term "edit."

The top right item in the geoPaint toolbox is the Edit Box tool, which I often refer to as the framing tool. 
When you click on this, the pointer becomes a crosshair.  It is used to define an area to be cut or
copied as a photo scrap; or an area into which a scrap can be pasted.  

To use the Edit Box tool, the crosshair is positioned at one corner of the area you wish to select.  After
clicking, move the crosshair to the diagonal  corner.  A rectangular outline will appear, and the second
click sets the region in place.  The frame that appears is a guideline only, and does not become part of
your document.

Once an area has been defined, click on EDIT in the top menu line.  To create a photo scrap of the
defined area, click on CUT or COPY (CUT will also clear the defined area).

If you want to paste a photo scrap into your document, click on PASTE.  You will then be offered
several options, including the ability to scale the size of the scrap.  Once you make your choices and
click OK, the current photo scrap is pasted into the defined area.

The other method of editing is to select one of various options from the bottom of the screen.  This
menu area appears whenever you have selected the EDIT tool.

The choice selected will affect the area inside your frame.  The default selection is MOVE.  Once you
have defined a frame area, two small black squares appear at the upper left and lower right corners of
the frame.  Clicking on the lower right box allows you to change the size of the frame.  Clicking on the
upper left box allows you to move the frame around within the drawing window.

COPY allows you to make a copy of the framed area in the drawing window (it does NOT create a
photo scrap).  Just click on the upper left box; wherever you move the frame, a copy of the framed
area will appear.

The other options are:

ROTATE: Rotates the area one quarter

MIRROR X:  Flips the area left to right

MIRROR Y:  Flips the area top to bottom

INVERT:  Changes the area to a negative image (black becomes white; white becomes black)

CLEAR:  Blanks the framed area (you can recover by immediately clicking UNDO, but once you
make any other selection, the cleared area is permanently lost)

GEOS is a program with many features.  During the learning period this adds greatly to the complexity
and difficulty of figuring everything out.  The best way to deal with it is to load the program, and try out
all the features and menu items.  Don't be afraid to experiment...you can always dump your failed
efforts into the waste basket!
