 
HARDWARE REVIEW: CMD HARD DRIVE
 
by Dick Estel
 
For a year or so I have been technolusting for what I swear is my 
"final" major purchase of Commodore equipment, specifically one of 
Creative Micro Design's large storage devices. I considered the 
RAMLink, the new FD 2000 or FD 4000 3.5" floppy drives, and the 
hard drive.
 
Now let me admit right up front that I can't prove to anyone, 
including myself, that I really NEED one of these items. However, 
I thought I would like having the programs I use most often 
readily available in one of these devices, so I don't have to hunt 
around for the disk and keep track of dozens of floppies.
 
After reading as much material as I could find, including the 
actual manual for the hard drive, I succumbed to temptation when 
Creative Micro Designs advertised a special price on a limited 
supply of 40 megabyte hard drives. I threw caution and my tax 
refund to the wind (East Longmeadow MA, actually), and made the 
plunge, and in a few weeks, I was exploring the wonders of having 
40 million bytes of storage space available.
 
Physically, the drive is three by five by ten inches in size, 
occupying about the same space as a 1581 drive. The front panel 
has four soft-touch pushbutton switches, Swap 8, Swap 9, Write 
Protect, and Reset, each with an indicator light. In addition 
there are four LED's: Power, Activity, Error and GEOS. With an 
external power supply, the drive is remarkably cool, despite the 
fact that the disk spins constantly when the drive is on. After 12 
hours of use on a hot day, the top of the case was barely warm; 
and the power supply also stays cool.
 
In addition to the standard Commodore serial connections, the back 
of the drive has a parallel port which connects to CMD's RAMLink, 
an auxiliary jack (not used at this time), and a connector to 
attach another SCSI drive. The drive can be used with a PC; in 
fact it is possible to have PC partitions and Commodore partitions 
on the disk at the same time.
 
CMD recommends turning the drive off and on with the power switch 
located on the back, with continuous power to the power supply. 
This is to extend the life of the battery that operates the built-
in clock.
 
The manual is printed on 5.25 x 8.5 paper, and comes in a three-
ring binder. The parts that are of use to me are clearly-written 
and well-organized, and there is a 10-page index. A significant 
part of the book is devoted to drive commands that are primarily 
of use to programmers.
 
VERSATILE DESIGN FEATURES
 
As the reigning kings/saviors of 8-bit Commodore life, the folks 
at CMD have taken a wonderfully wise and practical approach in 
designing high volume storage devices. With RamLink, the FD's and 
the HD's, the storage space can be divided into partitions and/or 
subdirectories of various sizes. 
 
In all cases, the user can create partitions that emulate the 
standard 1541, 1571 and 1581 drives. Some programs require the 
tracks and sectors of a disk, as well as the directory, to be laid 
out in a particular way. Emulation makes it possible to use these 
programs on the HD. For example, GEOS requires the use of 1581-
emulation partitions. Even with the emulation, some heavily 
protected programs will not work; also some utilize hardware 
aspects of the drive that are not duplicated on the HD. 
 
There is also a partition type called "native," which can be 
configured to any size from 256 blocks to 65,280 blocks, in 256-
block increments. Within a native partition, you can create 
subdirectories and sub-subdirectories (as in PC DOS) down to as 
many levels as you desire (within reason; there is a practical 
limit of about 40 levels, but it would usually be absurd to go 
beyond four or five.)
 
The benefit of this capability is the organization it brings to 
your files. You could have a Write Stuff partition, with 
subdirectories for various categories of files, such as 
correspondence, reports for work, newsletter articles, and family 
history. In your correspondence partition, you could have 
subpartitions named business, family, letters to the editor, and 
so on. Carrying it to an extreme, letters to the editor could be 
divided into The Underground, Commodore World, and Time Magazine.
 
Creation of partitions is easily accomplished with a utility 
called HD-TOOLS, which comes already installed on the drive (as 
well as on a disk). HD-TOOLS also allows deleting a partition and 
changing certain defaults, including the device number assigned to 
the drive, and the partition that is automatically opened when the 
drive is turned on. The creation of subdirectories is even easier; 
there is no special program, just a DOS command, entered in BASIC 
from within the desired partition.
 
One of the big advantages of the HD native partition system is 
that all the blocks available in the partition are available to 
any of the individual subdirectories. Thus if there are 16,447 
blocks free in the root directory, the same number of blocks will 
show free in each individual subdirectory. In contrast, partitions 
on the 1581 are limited to the specific number of blocks assigned 
when the partitions are created.
 
Changing from one partition to another, or entering a 
subdirectory, is normally done with a DOS command. CMD has 
developed a number of special commands for the hard drive; all 
have two-letter abbreviations. All of them work with the DOS 
wedge, which is built into many programs. For example, with The 
Write Stuff, [CONTROL] [UP ARROW] puts you in command mode with 
the DOS wedge prefix @ already displayed. @CP3 would then take you 
to partition #3; @CD:correspondence would take you to the 
correspondence subdirectory.
 
You can switch to another partition from within subdirectories, 
but changing to another subdirectory within the same partition 
requires going back to the root directory. This can be 
accomplished by entering the name of the root partition, but 
@CD:[BACK ARROW] is a short cut to take you back one level from 
whatever subdirectory you are in.
 
You can also change partitions by pressing a combination of 
the front panel switches. This is valuable when using programs 
that do not allow access to a DOS wedge, such as the terminal 
program I use, Dave's Term. You can't do this in GEOS, but you 
don't need it.

Pressing and holding the Write Protect switch puts the drive 
into Front Panel Partition Selection (FPPS) mode, causing the 
Activity light to blink steadily. While in this mode, pressing 
the Write Protect Switch sets the lowest digits (1's); Swap 9 
and Swap 8 respectively set the 10's and 100's. To select 
partition 25, you would press the Write Protect switch six 
times (0 to 5) and Swap 8 three times. Each press lights up a 
different group of indicators. For 5 the Swap 8 and Write 
Protect lights are on. A chart is provided that shows which 
number is indicated by the different combination of indicator 
lights. 

Once the partition is selected, you exit from FPPS mode by 
again holding and pressing the Write Protect switch until the 
activity light goes off. (This procedure is MUCH simpler than 
it sounds; I used the drive six months before I tried it!)
 
One of the great design ideas on CMD's large storage devices is 
the SWAP 8/SWAP 9 feature. My drive's default device number is 10. 
Pressing the SWAP 8 button instantly changes the HD to drive 8, 
and the existing drive 8 to drive 10. SWAP 9 of course works the 
same way. This change can be made from within most programs (not 
GEOS), greatly increasing the flexibility and convenience of the 
unit. For example, my spreadsheet program will not load from the 
hard drive. I simply load it from a 1571 set as drive 8, then 
press SWAP 8 and use the HD to load and save data files.
 
Additional utilities provided include disk and file copiers, and 
utilities to reformat the drive and re-install the hard drive DOS. 
The drive comes with the DOS installed and several partitions 
already set up, including two LOADSTAR issues that were released 
for free distribution.
 
The drive includes a built-in clock, and of course a program to 
set the time. This feature attaches the date and time to all files 
that are saved to the HD. Used with GEOS, it automatically sets 
the time on boot-up. The command @$=T will display a directory 
with the date and time of the last change to each file included. 
 
240 DISKS IN ONE
 
Just how big is 40 megabytes, anyway? How about the equivalent of 
240 5.25" disks--around 160,000 blocks. I have well over 240 5.25" 
disks with "stuff" on them, but most of it is stuff I never or 
almost never use. There would be no point in putting most of this 
stuff on the hard drive, so it seems unlikely that I will fill up 
the drive any time soon. I know there are some people using CMD 
hard drives with up to 1000 megabytes (a gigabyte), but these are 
usually people who are running a BBS. So far the partitions I have 
created take up a little over 107,000 blocks; and of course, the 
space within partitions is not all used by any means. (My Write 
Stuff partition has over 11,000 blocks free.)
 
Besides massive storage, one of the things expected from a hard 
drive is speed. Of course anything connected to a Commodore 8-bit 
machine is subject to the limits of the computer's ability to send 
and receive data, but users have been accustomed to a continuing 
increase in disk access speed--first with various fast loading 
programs, cartridges, and chips; and then with the advent of the 
1571 and 1581 drives.
 
Here are a few measurements, using a C128 and 1581, both with 
Jiffy-DOS:
 
 
File type and size             LOAD           SAVE 
                               1581   HD-40   1581   HD-40
 
58 K Write Stuff text          :11    :08     :38    :29
 
16 K Write Stuff text                         :18    :10
 
Write Stuff 128 program        :21.61 :12.36
 
GEOS 128 Program              1:06.09 :39.00
 
TWS Spellchecking
 
1581: 17.55 seconds
HD40: 11.46 seconds
REU:   4.23 seconds
 
WHAT WORKS AND WHAT DOESN'T
 
Virtually all unprotected Commodore programs will work in native 
partitions on the HD. On my system this includes The Write Stuff, 
DCMR, LOADSTAR, Dave's Term (my terminal program), and the 
Menumaker program used to create the menus we used on our Disks of 
the Month. Several older utility programs that I tested can be 
loaded and run from the HD, but will not recognize the HD for 
disk-related functions. This included Omega-Q, a multiple-function 
utility which I use for dissolving ARC'd files. Other programs, 
such as Ultra file reader and Davis Directory Designer will work 
but do not access a second drive, greatly limiting the value of 
putting them on the HD.
 
At least some protected programs that can be copied with Maverick 
parameters also will work in emulation partitions. One of my 
favorites in this category is Sky Travel, the planetarium program 
published in the "early days" by Commodore. A working nibble copy 
can be made that will work on a 1541 drive, but not on the HD. 
However, copying it with the parameter found on Maverick created a 
version that worked when copied to a 1541 emulation partition.
 
I assumed there would be newer programs to replace the utilities 
that did not function fully on the HD, and I obtained an excellent 
menu program and a directory sort program from GEnie. The former, 
EZ Load Menu, is set up in the default partition, and will load 
any program from any partition or subdirectory, eliminating the 
need to have a written list of where everything is. Another plus, 
it runs from either 64 or 128 mode. The directory sorter, DEdit 
V7.1 (with separate 64 and 128 versions), is not as versatile as 
some of the early programs, but is acceptable for most uses.
 
I GUESS I'LL KEEP IT
 
So far, in six months of use and testing, I have had very few 
problems with the drive, and find it living up to my highest 
expectations. Probably 80% of my computer use is either with TWS 
or GEOS. For Write Stuff I set up a large native partition, with 
subdirectories using the various categories of files that I 
already had established on separate 1581 disks. So far the only 
subdirectory that has been further divided is CORRESPONDENCE, 
which is divided into COMPUTER RELATED and OTHER. As the time 
comparisons show, loading and saving speed is significantly 
improved.
 
My other major program, GEOS, also works well on the HD, with only 
one problem. Although there is no access to DOS commands within 
GEOS, you can easily switch between 1581-emulation partitions 
using QUICKMOVE, a utility provided with the drive. Once opened, 
this program offers the choice of displaying a list of partitions, 
or the directory of the current disk. A click on the desired 
partition immediately switches you there. The directory listing 
can be used to copy files between partitions. Occasionally when I 
copy files this way, the destination partition is renamed with the 
same name as the source partition. This is easily remedied by 
renaming the partition, but once my boot partition became 
corrupted and I had to recreate it. (Setting up a boot partition 
on the HD is a bit tedious, requiring the use of Maverick v.3 
(later versions won't load when the hard drive is present).
 
Partition switching can also be accomplished from QUICKMOVE by 
pressing the number of the desired partition (choice is limited to 
1581 partitions; no other sizes can be accessed). Using this 
method, plus the keyboard shortcut to close the file ([COMMODORE] 
Q) took 16 seconds to get from desktop to desktop. By contrast, 
switching physical disks took only 8 seconds with the disk ready 
at hand. However, when you add the time needed to dig out the 
needed disk from the file box, the hard drive switching time is 
nearly always faster.
 
One thing I did learn by experience (i.e., the hard way) is the 
value of carefully planning the order and organization of 
partitions. Having added partitions as needed, I had GEOS 
scattered here and there, with unrelated items in between. Another 
consideration is that GEOS apparently will not reboot after a 
lockup unless the boot partition is #1 (CMD ships the drive with 
#1 containing many of the HD utilities). Ultimately I backed up 
everything on 1581 disks, deleted all partitions, and started 
over. This time I left several unused partitions between different 
areas for future use. Then I copied everything back to the HD. 
This project was worth the trouble, but no fun, and could have 
been avoided.
 
Although I had some serious second thoughts about such a large 
investment so late in the history of Commodore computing, I am 
completely satisfied and very glad I did it. The CMD hard drive is 
amazingly versatile, and offers all the increased convenience I 
expected and more. I feel I have only begun to take advantage of 
its capabilities. I have vowed to help take Commodore computing 
into the 21st century, and the HD-40 should prove to be a worthy 
aid and companion on that journey.

(From about 1995)
