TOOLS TO TAKE THE "HARD" OUT OF HARD DRIVE 
 
by Dick Estel (DickEstel@Worldnet.att.net) 
 
 
PROGRAMS COVERED: 
 
EZ LOADER  
DEDIT  
PARTITION VIEW ("part.128 v3.1")  
HD-TOOLS  
PARTITION PRINT  
FCOPY & M COPY  
CMD PARTVIEW.V4  
HD POWER TOOLS  
NOTIME.BAS 
 
 
 
New hardware requires new tools. The invention of the automobile lead to the 
development of everything from the electric starter to the high-tech 
computerized equipment now used for most auto repair diagnoses. 
 
The computer world is no different. The change from tape drives to disk drives 
as the prime storage media for Commodore lead to the development of all kinds of 
disk management and drive checking software. And the acquisition of a large 
capacity storage device such as a CMD hard drive requires the use of ever more 
sophisticated versions of these programs, as well as some specialized new ones. 
 
I've been enjoying my 40 megabyte CMD HD for about two years now--but without 
some of the programs described in this article, using it would often be a 
headache instead of a joy. 
 
 
HD TOOLS 
 
Before you can do much with your new hard drive, you need to create some 
partitions and subdirectories where you can save your work. CMD provides the 
programs to accomplish this, HD-TOOLS.128 and HD-TOOLS.64. Both function 
identically. 
 
Upon loading the program, you see a list of options, which include changing the 
default device number or the default partition, viewing a list of existing 
partitions, deleting an old partition, or adding a new one. 
 
Once the device and partition defaults are set, you probably won't change them 
often. The other options come in handy when you set up or reorganize your drive. 
 
Listing the partition table shows the partition number, its name, size in 
blocks, and type. The latter includes 1581, 1571 and 1541 emulation partitions, 
native, 1581 CP/M, print buffer, and foreign (for non-Commodore drives). The 
print buffer partitions are not usable by the current system, but there are 
plans to allow their use as a buffer so that data can be sent to the printer, 
and you can get back to work. The manual states that this will be implemented in 
a future version of the HD DOS program. Use of foreign partitions requires 
appropriate software on the other system. 
 
If you select "create a partition," you are presented with a display showing the 
first available partition number. You can press + or - to move to a different 
number, or RETURN to choose the one displayed. Next you select the type. If you 
choose an emulation partition, the size is automatically set. For native 
partitions, you select the size, in 256 block increments. After this you enter a 
name, and you have the option to write the new partition to the drive, or abort 
the process. 
 
The "delete" option does just what it sounds like. 
 
 
EZ LOADER 
 
Once you have partitions, subdirectories and files set up, a menu program of 
some kind is a must. I have hundreds of programs scattered over 50 partitions. I 
can easily remember where to find the Write Stuff, GEOS and my copy program. 
Finding programs I use less often could be a real challenge. 
 
The menu program I use is called EZ Loader, written by Dave Schmoll. This menu 
can be set up to access programs on any drive, partition, or subdirectory. In 
the menu interface, you can give the program a meaningful name, regardless of 
the actual file name. Once you've added a program to the menu, all you do is 
place the cursor on the program name and press [RETURN].  
 
For a thorough discussion of this program, see Scott Eggleston's review in issue 
#3 of The Underground, updated in issue #12. All I will say is that anyone who 
has a CMD large storage device MUST own EZ Loader. I WILL quote one comment from 
Scott's first review: "At first I was going to write about several menu systems 
available to us, but after using EZ Loader, I cannot recommend anything else." 
 
The more I work with it and review various items in the documentation, the more 
I appreciate the program. (The latest version is 3.3, and the registration cost 
is $20. Dave offers on-line support, and keeps registered users up to date on 
the latest changes.) 
 
 
DEDIT 
 
I've also found a directory sorting program to be a vital part of my tool box. 
Two great ones, David's Directory Designer and Directory Assistance, stand out 
for use with the 1541/71 drives. However, neither will work on 1581's or the 
hard drive (I'm sure this is also true of RAMLink and other similar devices). 
 
The best one I've found so far is "dedit128. v7.1" (also available in a 
similarly-named 64 version). The program is shareware, and a $5 donation is 
requested by author Jerome Yoner of Canada. 
 
Dedit allows automatic sorting of the entire directory, or a manual sort. In 
addition there is an option to pack the directory (eliminate "blank" spots where 
files have been deleted). The DOS wedge is fully supported, and a group of 
commands up to 255 characters can be sent by placing the English pound sign 
between each command. This is especially useful on the hard drive, where there 
may be several layers of subdirectories. Thus the command string  
"cp17^cd:correspondence^cd:family." would change to partition #17, and access 
the second level subdirectory "family," under the first level subdirectory 
"correspondence": 
 
Although the program is fast and relatively easy, I have several items on my 
wish list if there is an upgrade: I would like to be able to change the default 
colors, since I find some letter/background combinations hard to read. The two 
sort options require either sorting the entire directory, or moving one file 
name at a time in the manual sort. Some of the older programs allow moving a 
group of files, and sorting on a selected range. Clearly this could be 
implemented in a modern program. Even so, I am highly satisfied with the 
program, and use it regularly to keep my large word processing directories in 
alphabetical order. 
 
 
PARTITION VIEW 
 
Mr. Yoner has also provided us with another essential program, PARTITION VIEW 
("part.128 v3.1"), a program for viewing and/or printing the partition 
information on the CMD HD, RamLink, and RamDrive. The 128 version supports 
viewing the information in 80 columns. The 64 & 128 versions allow printing the 
information in 80 columns.   
 
The choices offered from the main menu in this program are as follows: 
 
1 - Read Partition Info  2 - Display Info  3 - Print Info  4 - Sort by Starting 
Block  5 - Sort by Partition Size  6 - Sort by Partition Number  7 - Sort by 
Partition Name  8 - Sort by Partition Type  9 - End    
 
Options 1 and 2 read in the partition data and display it, after which option 3 
allows you to send it to the printer or the screen. The programs great strengths 
are in the sort choices, the most useful of which is #4, Starting Block. This 
lists the partitions in the order they were created. The value of this comes if 
you want to delete several partitions.  
 
Regardless of the numeric designation of the partitions, they are written to the 
drive in the order that you create them. If you remove the second partition of 
twenty on a HD, you will wait a LONG time while all the other partitions are 
moved up. Sorting by order of creation allows you to delete partitions in 
reverse order, greatly reducing the wait time. The utility of the other choices 
should be fairly clear, and will depend on your own needs. 
 
Note that the sorting process is just a listing, no changes are written to the 
drive. 
 
 
CMD PARTVIEW 
 
A similar C64-only program, CMD PARTVIEW.V4 by "Scormus" does essentially the 
same thing, but also allows sending the sorted list to a disk file. 
 
 
PARTITION PRINT 
 
Another useful program for keeping a record of what is on the drive is PARTITION 
PRINT. When run, the program prints to the screen or printer a list of all 
partitions by name and type. It then repeats the list, showing partition size 
and blocks free. Finally it goes through the list again, showing subdirectories 
and indicating whether the partition has a boot sector. It's a simple program, 
but very handy for making regular updated lists of what's on the drive. 
 
 
FCOPY and MCOPY 
 
Two other programs that come with the drive are FCOPY, a file copier, and MCOPY, 
a whole disk copier (the "m" stands for "mirror"). MCOPY is pretty much a basic, 
garden variety disk copier that recognizes emulation partitions and all 
Commodore compatible drives. The program automatically prevents attempts at 
copying between mis-matched drive types. 
 
FCOPY is well designed for use with large capacity, partitioned storage devices. 
It allows access to partitions and subdirectories, including partitions created 
on 1581 disks. Files to be copied can be limited by the usual wild card 
techniques, as well as by date. This is a particularly valuable feature. For 
example, when I'm ready to back up the new material on a Write Stuff 
subdirectory, I can specify files that were created or modified after a selected 
date (normally the date of the last backup). This makes the task of backing up 
the hard drive a simple one. As with most good copiers, you can toggle all files 
in a list to be copied, or select them individually. You then tell the program 
how to deal with existing file names on the target disk: bypass copying that 
file, replace, or ask. FCOPY is available via many BBS's and on-line services, 
and would be a useful file copier for anyone, whether you have a hard drive or 
not. 
 
 
HD POWER TOOLS 
 
A potentially useful program I have not really tested is HD POWER TOOLS, from 
CMD. This item lets you directly edit partition tables, which describe the 
parameters of the partition. You can change the type (such as native, 1581 
emulation, 1541 emulation, etc.), the name, the start address, and the size. 
This allows the unwary and inexperienced user to totally destroy all data in a 
partition--which is why I have not tested these functions! 
 
Potentially more useful to the non-programmer is the ability to back up the 
partition table. Again, I did not fully test this function, and I do not have 
documentation for the program, but the apparent purpose is to allow you to 
restore the information defining your hard drive setup in case of a crash. I did 
use the SAVE function, which created a small USR file, but for obvious reasons I 
did not try the RESTORE option, which I assume writes the information back to 
the hard drive. Anyone feeling compelled to use this program should seek out the 
documentation! Wisely, the author gives you the chance to abort the proceedings 
at any point of danger. 
 
 
NAVAL OBSERVATORY TIME 
 
Finally, there is a convenient little file that makes it easy to precisely set 
the Hard Drive's clock (if glancing at your watch is not adequate). NOTIME.BAS 
is a dedicated terminal program which calls the U.S. Naval Observatory near 
Washington D.C., obtains the standard time, converts it to local time, sets the 
clock, and hangs up. I did have a problem with this file in that it would not 
function a second time after I had used it. However, I dissolved it from the 
original SFX file again, and the newly created program worked fine--once. Since 
I don't use the program often, it's not a big deal to dissolve it from the 
original each time I need it. But if anyone has the answer to this strange 
behavior, I'd love to hear about it. This program was featured on an Underware 
collection as "notime.sfx." (Underwear disks, a service of The Underground, were 
distributed by our own Tom Adams, who can no doubt still provide this file). 
 
All the programs mentioned here came from GEnie except those that were included 
with the drive and the Navel Time file. No doubt they are available at most 
Commodore FTP sites on The Internet and many bulletin board systems. 
 
Of course, there are many other programs designed for use with the hard drive 
and similar large capacity storage devices; and many others that are useful with 
it, though not specifically designed for it. These are the ones that have made 
my tool kit complete.  
 

