Letter Quality Printing and Commodore 

(from a variety of sources)

It used to be that "letter quality" meant daisywheel printing. But some 9-pin dot-matrix printers came
along that achieved very acceptable near letter quality work. Then came 24-pin printers that produced
text so near letter quality it takes a magnifying glass to see the difference. And the output from today's
new generation of laser type printers is difficult to distinguish from true letter quality.    

Because the laser type printer can accomplish both letter quality text and high resolution graphic
printing, it is rapidly becoming the printer of choice. And that explains the just as rapid decline in dot-
matrix printer inventories at the computer stores. As for daisywheel printers, they are mostly seen in
thrift stores.      

As it pertains to Commodore, the graphic environment is limited to the 8-bit resolution built into the 64
and 128. This doesn't mean that decent graphics can't be accomplished. But it does mean that the full
capabilities of today's printers cannot be utilized. Indeed, it is seen where 9-pin printing produces better
graphics than does 24-pin printing. And while a laser type printer will give the best possible results from
a Commodore, it will hardly be the best the printer can do.      

However, when it comes to straight text printing, a printer's built-in fonts can be used. This type of
printing presents no problems to a properly interfaced Commodore because the resolution is coming
from the printer, not the computer. And it happens that straight text printing still consumes a good deal
of the paper used by computers. Even when a letterhead is present, it is common to use paper on which
the letterhead is already printed.      

But, then, this is the kind of printing chore for which the daisywheel is ideally suited. And few
peripherals connect to a Commodore easier than a daisywheel. There isn't a printer interface made that
doesn't provide for daisywheel operation.    

To check out a secondhand daisywheel, first look to see that it provides the standard Centronics
parallel connection. (One exception is the Commodore DPS1101, which, of course, connects directly.)
Then simply insert a sheet of paper, plug it in, and hold down the form feed button while turning it on. It
should begin printing. Examine the quality of the print, and make your decision whether to buy or not.

(Reprinted from Civic 64/128 Gazette, Ventura-Oxnard, December 1997 via The Commodore
Information Center web site (http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html).
