The Nine Lives of Commodore

by Dick Estel

You'll find this does not cover all nine of the lives mentioned in the title--because Commodore has not
yet reached it's final life.

First Commodore was a "low cost" home computer, priced around $600, well below the thousand or
more required for a Radio Shack or Apple product about the same time.

Next the price dropped substantially, with the bottom retail store price in the neighborhood of $150 to
$200 for the C-64. During this incarnation over ten million C-64's were sold worldwide. At the same
time the disrespect that Commodore has suffered ever since began, with the epithet of the day being
"game machine." Part of this was due to the fact that Commodore was in fact the best game machine
around. IBM had crude graphics and no sound other than a pitiful "beep."

Then came the decline of Commodore the company, which stayed away from the pattern of innovation,
advancement, and obsolescence marking the rest of the PC world. In its final years the company gave
birth to another excellent, non-compatible machine, the Amiga. With the demise of the company,
Commodore entered the "orphan" phase.

But there were plenty of "foster parents" willing to continue to care for their machines. User groups
became the primary method of support. 

Soon Windows arose as the primary force in the PC world (borrowing liberally from Apple who had
borrowed from Xerox). At this time Commodore became "obsolete."

This seems to have been the status for the last five or six years, even as unsung heros labored to drag
the Commodore into the 21st century with RAM expansion, hard drives and processor speed-up
hardware like the Super CPU.

Now Commodore seems to have entered a new life era. I'm not sure what to call it, but possibilities
include "venerated classic," "historic curio," and "tool of unrepentant neanderthals." This phase is
marked by a strange interest in these "archaic" machines by the popular mass media. In the summer of
1999 a positive and respectful article appeared in the New York Times. At the 1999 Vintage
Computer Show in Santa Clara, our club president, Robert Bernardo, made contact with people from
several publications. Out of this came an article in Wired magazine, which usually has its compass
pointed unwaveringly to the future. Wired interviewed Robert, programmer Maurice Randall and
others, conducted a photo session with Robert in early January.

The magazine, Shift, which is kind of a Wireless for the great white north published an article on the
Vintage Computer Show and featured Robert's photo in the table of contents as well as the article,
along with a half dozen other pictures from the show.

I myself received a call from The Fresno Bee (our local newspaper) to ask about "people who use old
computers." This culminated in an article in The Bee's "Neighbors" section, which is sort of an attempt
to print a folksy small town newspaper for various regions of our metropolis. The article featured a
photo of an Amiga (Commodore's "other" brand) and its proud owner, along with comments from
Amiga users, a brief nod to Atari, and my own comments on the state of Commodore.

Let's see, that's about five lives. So I guess we have at least four more to look forward to as we plunge
headlong into a new century. A good time to keep this in mind: If you never change your style, it's
bound to come back again. 

From "The Interface," newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group 
