Two State of the Art Terminal Programs for Commodore 

NOVATERM

Novaterm is usually considered the best communications software available for the Commodore 64.  It
supports today's high-speed modems as well as older Commodore modems.  And of course it supports
80-column emulations as well as traditional Commodore color/graphics.  Novaterm 9.6 supports a
variety of memory expansion devices for capturing text.  In addition it supports all of the most common
file transfer protocols, including Zmodem.  

Novaterm is perfect for the Internet, for major on-line services, and for local Commodore and
non-Commodore bulletin boards.  Novaterm provides for all of your telecommunication needs.

Have questions, ideas, or comments about Novaterm?  The author, Nick Rossi, is available thru his
Internet address.  Nick's e-mail address is shown below along with his regular mailing address.

Now for the cost of the program, there's even good news here, at least for the Novaterm registered
users among us.  If you are a registered user of an earlier Novaterm version you can get the upgrade for
only $5.00.  If you are buying Nova for the first time it will be $29.95 and $1.50 shipping.

Nick Rossi's Internet address:  voyager@eskimo.com

For orders or comments thru regular mail:  Nick Rossi, 10002 Aurora Ave. N #3353, Seattle, WA
98133.


DESTERM

Desterm 2.0 is a C128, 80-column, menu-driven terminal program capable of speeds up to 57.6K
baud.  It is Commodore and Hayes-compatible, and supports ASCII, VT-52, VT-102, ANSI, and
Commodore Color Graphics. Desterm allows comprehensive configuration over its environment.  It
comes with over 60 pages of documentation, ready to be printed out.

If you use and like Desterm V2.00, please send the shareware fee of $25 (US or Canadien) to:
 Matthew Desmond 265 Beechlawn Drive, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 5W8 Canada

This name and address is different from those published in the various versions of Desterm so far.
Matthew can no longer cash checks made out to Desmond Software Industries.

Desterm 2.0 can be downloaded from various sites.  Some of the more common are Genie (files
8198-8201), Delphi, and from the author's website at: www.ionline.net/~mdesmond/Desterm.html

A demo version of the enhanced Desterm 2.01 is also available on the Delphi network. 


Via The Commodore Information Center web site (http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)
