Programs and Data Files

Some of the confusion people seem to have in using GEOS comes from a lack of understanding of this
simple principle: There are two common types of files used on any computer platform: 

Programs, often called Applications, are files you can RUN. Sometimes the word used is LAUNCH
or OPEN or START. The idea is the same. A program DOES something, and you have to run it to get
it to do that thing. Often a program consists of more than one file--but the idea is still the same; that
group of files are used by the program to make things happen.

Data Files are what you create with a program. The Write Stuff creates text files, which can be as
simple as a letter to your uncle, or the Great American Novel. GeoPaint creates graphic files. And the
GEOS Photo Manager creates Photo Albums. 

Almost without exception, a program that creates a data file can later modify that file. Equally important
in many cases, different programs can share the same files. Sometimes you have to do something to
convert the data file from its original format to the other program's format; sometimes it can be used as
is.

And guess what: When the data file is being converted, that task is handled by a program--sometimes
the second program, sometimes a separate program, sometimes even the original program. 

For example, Write Stuff can convert its standard screen code text files to PETASCII or standard
ASCII format; and can convert both those formats to screen code. But geoPaint can't convert a Koala
or Doodle file. So some clever programmer wrote a separate program to do this. 

Most of these stand-alone conversion programs don't do anything but convert. Import Runner can
convert several file formats to geoPaint, but can't do anything else with the original file or the new file.

Your computing life will be a lot easier if you can program your mind to file this information where it's
easily accessible!

From The Interface, newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group via the Commodore Information
Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)