The Genesis of Wheels

A Look At How It All Came About

Once upon a time, Maurice Randall bought a Commodore 64, and it came with a graphical operating
system called GEOS. At first he had little to do with it. It seemed cumbersome and slow, and he didn't
have much use for it. Of course, like most people early on, he only had one disk drive! GEOS is awful
to use with a single drive. There really isn't much point in it. 

Soon, he acquired a second drive, a 1581, and then he got a Commodore 1700 REU and found out
that he could increase the capacity of this 128K ram expansion unit to 512K. He bought the chips and
performed the operation. He began to take another look at that GEOS system and got so interested in
it that he upgraded to GEOS 2.0. Soon afterward, he got a 128 and had to have GEOS for that. He
was hooked. 

Over the next several years, Maurice learned how to write GEOS programs, and he got quite familiar
with the system. Back when he sent in his GEOS registration card, he filled out the little questionnaire
that came with it. It asked what type of applications you would like to see developed for GEOS. He
filled in a suggestion about a fax program. They probably had a good laugh back at Berkeley
Softworks when they saw that one! Little did he know that he would someday create that piece of
software himself. 

A few years back, Maurice realized a need for something better in the way of disk drivers for GEOS.
Sure, that was already done, Configure had disk drivers, and gateWay had disk drivers. But there was
just something there that was missing. For one, the native driver support on the CMD devices was
never perfected. The RAMLink was supported, but not really like it should be. There were RAMdisk
drivers, but they could also be improved. 

Maurice jumped in and started a new project. He began to study a couple of the existing drivers to see
what there was that he didn't like. He saw there was room for improvement. So, he wrote his own
variation of the drivers and adapted them to work on the CMD Hard Drive in the native partitions.
Previously, only gateWay supported this type of driver. But Maurice had already created a user
interface known as geoSHELL, and it was flexible enough to be used with any GEOS driver. Soon,
Maurice had his own version of the native driver that he could use with geoSHELL and did not need
gateWay to use it. GeoSHELL had the ability to install the drivers during bootup. He had to avoid using
the Desktop, though, as it was written in such a way that it would only work with 1541, 1571, and
1581 type devices. And it was really a cobble job making it work with 1581 drives. The Desktop failed
to follow certain GEOS programming rules, which caused it to not work with the native driver. 

Using the native drivers was nice, since subdirectories allowed better organization of files as well as
making better use of the available space. Pretty soon Maurice did a version of the driver for the FD
drive and then the RAMLink. But these drivers still were not perfect. Using native partitions within
GEOS was difficult, not from a user standpoint, but from the actual design of the operating system. The
biggest problem was that the block allocation map (BAM) couldn't be stored in memory, like GEOS
has always done it. A native BAM can be as big as 8K. The BAM is what keeps track of the sectors
that are in use on the disk. 

Eventually, Maurice got the idea of replacing Configure. This only seemed logical since he had a small
collection of disk drivers and it was Configure that has always stored and installed the drivers during
bootup. But that also meant coming up with drivers for the other types of disk devices. This included
the 41, 71, 81, and drivers for the FD, HD, and RAMLink using 1581 partitions. Then there was the
41, 71, and 81 RAMdisks too. Maurice took the drivers he had created and modified certain parts that
were specific to the type of device that the driver was to be used with. 

Then a wild idea popped in his head. OK, now we've got a new Configure, but we could really use a
new Desktop. Sure there's geoSHELL, but a good Desktop was still needed. He had started on
something like that a few years ago and never finished it. It was called Dashboard and was to be
released for the 128. Maurice dug out the source code to it and started modifying it and changing things
until he came up with something even better. 

One thing led to another, and another, and another. Before you knew it, Maurice was working on
upgrading the whole darn operating system. So, what began as a rather simple project of studying the
problems in one disk driver, led up to a rather major undertaking. Maurice created an operating system
with the feel of the old GEOS in many ways, but with a whole fresh new look to it and many new
possibilities buried within. 

This material is Copyright 1997 by Maurice Randall. It may be reproduced without permission by any
recognized Commodore User Group.

(Via the Commodore Information Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)

