In Memoriam: Ruth Hackley

The Commodore community has lost another member. Ruth Hackley passed away suddenly this week
in Roseburg Oregon. Ruth's husband Ron Hackley is the author of the Fun Graphics Machine graphics
manipulation program for the C64.

Funeral services for Ruth will be held on Friday 1pm at the Lutheran Church in Roseburg. Her ashes
will be scattered over the Umpqua River near the Hackley home.

As well as participating in many Commodore mailing lists and the comp.sys.cbm newsgroup, Ruth and
Ron are also members of their local Commodore/Amiga user group and Meeting Commodore
C64/128 Users through the Mail.

When I lived in the US, Ruth would phone me at least once a month to see how I was, and her
gracious concern always touched me. If she saw a message in a mailing list or newsgroup that hadn't
been answered, she would always try to help as much as she could.  Ruth was an extremely remarkable
woman and will be missed.

Below is the notice from the Oregon News-Review online. 
http://www.oregonnews.com/8.Obit/obituarysite/pages-date/aug1/X0002_Hackley_Ruth.html

HACKLEY, Ruth Marie - Age 77, a resident of Roseburg, passed away July 27, 2000. Ruth was born
June 21, 1923 in Battle Creek, Michigan to parents Emil and Emma (Miller) Yohpe. She served in the
U.S. Coast Guard during World War II.  Ruth received her Bachelor of Arts degree in education from
the University of Washington in 1966, then went on to teach in the Kent, Washington primary school
system until her retirement. Ruth earned her amateur radio (ham) license as KD7JQV, and was a
member of the Umpqua Valley Amateur Radio Club. She was a member of the Lane County
Commodore Computer Club in Eugene as well as the U of W Commodore Club in Seattle, and was
very active in supporting Commodore users world-wide. Her interests and knowledge were vast and
included many subjects; she knew tools (fixing things), flowers, sewing, music, computer programming,
art, classics, history, and so much more. She was full of surprises. She was also a wonderful cook. Ruth
was a member of the Faith Lutherin Church in Roseburg, and Central Lutherin Church in Seattle prior
to moving to Roseburg. She is predeceased by her parents and her sister Marian (Yohpe) Cusmano.
Survivers include husband Ron Hackley, children David Bluejacket of Tucson AZ, Diane Ruotsalainen
of Seattle WA and Robert (Margaret) Ruotsalainen with grandson Michael Daniel of Cheney WA,
brothers Bill (Betty) Yohpe of Norcross GA, and Ted (Reggie) Yohpe of South Daytona FL,
numerous nephews, neices and inlaws including Howard and Marge Ruotsalainen of Castle Rock WA,
many friends world wide, and her cats. Ruth was a strong loving and beautiful woman of great faith and
independent thought, and will be greatly missed by all who knew her. A memorial service will be held
Friday August 4, 2000 at 1:30 p.m. at Faith Lutheran Church in Roseburg, with Pastor Ray Venghaus
officiating.  Contributions in lieu of flowers may be made to the Faith Lutheran Church Memorial Fund,
820 W. Kenwood St, Roseburg OR 97470.

From The Interface, newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group, via the Commodore Information
Center, http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html
