Search and Replace

by Rolf Miller

As I have before extolled, I continue to use a Commodore 64 because it does everything I ask of it,
and what I ask of it is most of what I do with computers, and it does it easier than I could do it on a
more powerful machine. 

And I know the latter is true because acquaintances of mine with bigger PC's have attempted to show
me how they could do it easier. I suspect that these folks ganged up on me the other day because I
received a document via e-mail which contained a rather complex bunch of lines, boxes, etc. It existed
in legal size. They wanted it reduced to letter size. And they said they couldn't do it. 

Well, that's silly. If nothing else, the document could be printed, then reduced at a copy shop. But I
think they thought that because the document existed in the Windows environment, it would be beyond
the Commodore's ability. So, I accepted the challenge. Saving a Windows document as a text file is
easily done, as is transporting it to the Commodore platform. Then came the real challenge: recreating
the boxes, etc. These, naturally, appeared as garbage characters on the screen because the
Commodore character set doesn't contain them. 

Much of what I do involves producing text in one form or another. For this I use The Write Stuff
(TWS) word processing program. I realize not everyone uses TWS, but most word processors have a
SEARCH and REPLACE function. This allows searching for a character, word, or phrase and
replacing it with a character, word, or phrase. 

In addition to the normal alpha-numeric characters, TWS also allows use of the graphic characters
available from the keyboard on the @ * + - keys and all those obtained with use of the Commodore
key. This provides for creating various items, including lines and boxes. 

Examining the garbage characters determined which keyboard graphics would create the lines and
boxes they represents. Then began the searching and replace process. This easily accomplished some
of the conversions, but it didn't take long to figure out that a fair amount of work lay ahead. This
prompted another course. 

One of the reasons things are easier to do on the 64 is its affinity to programming, and writing little
routines to accomplish tasks such as this is one activity that requires little prodding at this desk. In this
case, though, a routine already existed, previously written to perform a similar task. A little revising fit it
to this job. This program called for a sequential text file, and each line of text had to contain just one
leading space in order to accommodate the logic that determined which graphic character to substitute. 

With normal text this is easily accomplished by printing to disk with the left margin set to 1. However,
the garbage contained characters which TWS uses as formatting codes. Thus, printing to disk would
destroy the format. 

SEARCH and REPLACE came to the rescue. Doing a search for a carriage return and replacing it with
a carriage return and a space provide the leading space. Then switching to ASCII and saving the
document as a sequential file maintained that format. After running the program, loading the resulting file
back found the graphics perfectly formed. 

Doing a search for a carriage return and a space and replacing it with a carriage return removed the
leading space. Then, doing a search for a carriage return and replacing it with the printer code for
graphic linefeed, a carriage return, and the printer code for text printing provided for printing the graphic
characters to appear joined when printed. 

It's noted in this that using a graphic linefeed for printing text prints lines without any space between
them. To allow for this, a carriage return with the appropriate graphic is added to lines which involve
both text and graphics. This produces text with about 1 1/2 line spacing. (And, I suppose, this is where
GEOS users can come in.) As for the challengers, they thanked me for the document without further
comment.

From Homestead Commodore Internet Mail List, via the Commodore Information Center,
http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html
