Spring Cleaning? Don't Forget the Computer 

by Dan Gutman

In more civilized times, spring cleaning meant taking up the heavy rugs and cleaning out the closets.
These days, it means dusting off the VCR and getting the car washed--if we have the time.

But there's one thing you should give a thorough cleaning once a year--your computer system. All sorts
of problems occur when dirt and dust get into delicate electronic parts.

Monitor: Spray Windex or Glass Plus on a lint-free cloth and wipe the screen well. Computer stores
also sell anti-static screen cleaners. You might want to run around the house and clean all your TV
screens at the same time.

Keyboards: Computerists are constantly told not to eat anywhere near the computer. Hardly anybody
ever follows that advice. Consequently, most of us have keyboards filled with Chips Ahoy crumbs,
pretzels, and last year's salami sandwich. 

Common sense should tell you not to pour Fantastic or any other fluid onto your keyboard. And don't
try to pry off the key caps to clean the innards. You're just opening a can of worms!

The only way to clean a keyboard safely is with air. Use a powerful vacuum with an attachment that can
fit into small places, or better yet, blow the dirt out by spraying compressed air. These cans are
available in most computer and office supply stores.

Printers: This is where the dirt is the worst, because you have all that ink flying around. Clean the print
head carefully with a damp rag or Q-tip soaked in alcohol. While you're at it, use a very small nozzle on
the vacuum and suck up all those bits of dust and debris. (Note: This article dates from the days of
impact printers and may not apply to ink jets and laser printers.)

The Computer Itself: If you know how to open up your computer and aren't afraid to poke around
inside, there's nothing wrong with carefully cleaning it with a dry-damp Q-tip.

If the thought of opening up your computer makes you break out in hives, don't do it. You may do
more harm than good.

If you've got a service contract, bring your computer in once a year even if nothing is wrong with it, so
a professional can fully clean and check it out. A good time to do this is when you go away on vacation
or business and won't be needing the computer for a few days.

If you smoke or have a cat that prowls around the computer, it's all the more important to clean it
occasionally. You don't have to buy an expensive cleaning kit --but on the other hand, just any old rag
will cause more problems than it is trying to resolve! Lint-free cloths and the correct cleaning solution
will do wonders.

Before you clean ANYTHING, look at the instruction booklet that came with the component to see if
any special procedures are indicated, and make sure everything is turned off AND unplugged first! 

More Tips For Regular Computer Maintenance:

Keep computer equipment away from radiators, direct sunlight, and other sources of heat. Make sure
to leave a few inches of breathing room around all your components so air can circulate.

Computers don't like static electricity. Get an anti-static mat for your desk and the floor below the
computer. Get in the habit of touching your lamp or other piece of metal before you touch the
computer, especially in the winter or if the room is carpeted.   

Stash the cords and cables out of the way so children and pets don't trip over them.      

Fumes from nail polish remover, ammonia, glue, and other liquid chemicals can react with magnetic
surfaces. Keep them away from your floppy disk.   

Get a dust cover, not just for the computer, but also for your printer, copy machine, and other
electronic equipment.    Tape a cardboard flap in front your floppy disk drive opening and leave it there
all the time. Less dust will get sucked into your computer, so there will be less to clean out next year.
(Today's equipment usually has a built-in cover over the opening of the floppy drive.)

(From The Computer Chronicle via Random Bits, newsletter of Northern Virginia Computer Users
Group via the Commodore Information Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)