Using Tape for Write Protect Tabs

Recently the editor had a conversation about technical matters with two of our club members who have
expertise in this area, Larry Hawks and Del Contreras.

I asked them about a suggestion a member had made regarding use of electrical tape for write tab
protection.  In the past I have unwrapped some taped stereo connections and found my fingers covered
with sticky, melted goo from the tape, so I was concerned about putting something like that in my disk
drive.

Del felt that it would not be a problem as long as good quality tape were used--avoid 39 cent
supermarket bargain bins.  Larry was a little more hesitant, since he felt there would be a problem if the
tape came loose.  Probably it would be a good idea to use this only for a disk that you expect to leave
permanently protected, so you would not have a sticky spot if you had to remove the tab.

We also discussed the age old question, to flip or not to flip your floppies.  (Disk sellers and
manufacturers warn against this practice, for obvious reasons!)

Del explained that as a disk spins, tiny particles of the magnetic material wear off and are carried
around inside the disk cover.  When you flip the disk, the first side then spins in the opposite direction. 
This has the effect of carrying the loose material back and forth when the two sides of the disk are used
regularly, which can contribute to particles getting into the drive or damaging the disk.

Del did not feel there is a problem with disks that are not used much, but for a regularly used one, he
recommends spending the extra 40 cents for another disk.

These two gentlemen have added a great deal to my still very limited technical knowledge.  This type of
information sharing is what being a member of user group is all about.  They and other experienced
computer users are more than willing to help out, so feel free to bring up your technical questions during
the meetings.  Remember, if there's something you'd like to ask, probably several other people have the
same question too.

(Originally published in The Interface newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group, November 1988;
via the Commodore Information Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html)