Thanks to Commodore 

by Ben Briscoe

When our editor suggested that I might write something about my experiences with printers and
interfaces, it started a train of thought that frankly had never occurred to me before--just how much I
owed to my experiences with my computers, all of which have been Commodores.

As I said in my printer article, I retired in 1977, after teaching for thirty years.  That caused me to brush
off my real estate sales license because my wife said she wasn't ready to give up her job and retire yet.
Since I didn't feel inclined to take on her duties as housekeeper,  gainful employment seemed the best
alternative.

Not long after the Commodore Computers hit the market, I began to realize they could be a real help in
gaining customers and giving better service to my clients.

After acquiring my basic hardware consisting of a C64, a 1541 disk drive, and a Star Gemini 10X, I
had to consider the software which I could best use to advantage.

On this basis, I bought a Commodore program called Easy Finance I. This program allowed me to give
my customers services which they were very pleased to receive:  Loan Principal,  Regular Payments, 
Last  Payment,  Remaining  Balance,  Mortgage Amortization, Mortgage Comparison Analysis, etc.

Then, I purchased a program little known in this country, put out by Commodore Limited. of Canada. 
Its title is Magic Desk I.  Unlike programs on disks, this program is in a cartridge.  It turns your
computer into an electric typewriter with a digital clock, a waste basket, and a file cabinet for up to 300
pages on each new floppy disk.  This allowed me new freedom of time, since my operation was too
small to afford me the luxury of a stenographer and the retention of letters and files was an important
part of the business.

My next purchase was Print Shop which allowed me to put out letterheads, advertising copy with
graphics, etc.

So, as I reflect on my real estate experience, I find that I owe my trusty Commodore a debt of
gratitude, for giving  me the gift of time-saving flexibility and stimulating some innovation in my real
estate sales work.

From The Interface, newsletter of Fresno Commodore User Group, via the Commodore Information
Center http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html 