Book Review:

The Internet for C64/128 Users by Gaelyne R. Gasson

by Bev Harvey (bharvey@the.link.ca)

If I were to be limited to one single word in describing this instruction manual, I would have no
hesitation in choosing the word "COMPLETE."  

As a hobby Commodore user since way back in 1984, I have been wading through instruction
manuals; some I could master, others with perseverence I managed, with great difficulty, to get
something somewhat close to what was supposed to be. It seems while for the most part Commodore
programmers were ever brilliant in writing computer programs, I had difficulty following their
instructions. For me, these important people were under the assumption the reader had several degrees
in computer science, or was at least on a computer intelligence level of the writer. How wrong some of
them were.     

I had heard Gaelyne was writing this manual quite some time before it was available. I waited with
anticipation; I made discreet inquiries. Finally, my good friend Tom Adams sent me e-mail and told me
the instruction manual was ready and gave me Gaelyne's address. I immediately contacted her and gave
her my Visa number, and within a week the book was in my hot little hands.      

Quickly, I thumbed through it. I expected volumes of instructions similar to the "Dummy" books - but
no, here was a neat little book, about half the size of those other instruction books mentioned, neatly
ring bound for easy handling and the whole works outlined in seventeen chapters with the usual
Appendix Resource Listings and Index.   

Further study showed this lady certainly knew her stuff. The workings of the Commodore Computer,
both C-64 and C-128, were clearly outlined. She shows an exceptional knowledge of the Internet as
related to the Commodore, and has organized her book in such a manner that it could apply to the
beginner anxious to "Surf The Net" as the saying goes, or to those who have been on the Net for
considerable time, but never fully realized the potential of our often maligned Commodores. All the
reader had to do was go to the index at the front of the book, figure out about where his knowledge
level was, and jump on board. She has covered the most used terminal programs - Nick Rossi's
Novaterm (there's even a sort of a demo to get you started), Desterm, Dialogue, and Bob's Term for
complete coverage. Strictly your choice.

I can't speak too highly of this book. To me it's a relief to follow instructions aimed at the average
Commodore fan. I think she should have named it "Everything You Wanted to Know About The
Internet Using a 64 or 128 but Were Afraid to Ask." I was pleasantly surprised to learn procedures
that other platform users were bragging about are available on the Commodore. She even outlines the
dialogue to use if the Internet provider has any doubts about the capabilities of the Commodore. A
source list of providers is listed complete with voice phone numbers and e-mail addresses. Free-Nets
are listed by State including Hawaii and even two locations in Canada. 

I have used this book extensively for the last ten days now and can say I have learned more in that time
by referencing the manual when I logged on than I ever did the last year and a half I have been using the
World Wide Web. The only disadvantage I can think of, and that's difficult to do, is the price, including
Nick Rossi's Term Program, was over $50.00 Canadian. Of course, at the present rate of exchange
US to Canada the American price would be much cheaper. However when you compare this cost and
the valued content to the "Dummy" instruction books there is no comparison. The value is obvious. 
     
For any Commodore user presently using the Internet - or those thinking of jumping on the Net, I
personally recommend this instruction manual. Once you start to use it, in conjunction with logging on, it
will become your constant reference for easy access and use in the complicated world of cyberspace. 
     
(Reprinted from Mailink, newsletter of Meeting Commodore Users Through the Mail, July 1997)


The book has been updated to a second edition, now available; and a third edition is in the works. The
following ordering information was obtained from Gaelyne in mid-July 1998 for this reprint:

If mailing a personal check or bank draft from the US, the price is: $29.95 US each plus shipping. ($12
Express /$9 Airmail /$7 Economy Air)

If ordering using a credit card (Phone/Fax/Email/Web orders) we must  charge in Australian dollars. 

The price is $36.95 AU and the shipping options are the same - but in  Australian dollars, it's: $15
Express / $11.50 Airmail / $9 Economy Air

Based on today's currency exchange rates (16 July '98), one book shipped Economy Air using a credit
card would cost $45.95 in Australian, and US customers would have $28.69 US debited to their credit
card.

A Currency Conversion utility is available on the web at: http://www.xe.net/currency/

We can accept Master Card, Visa, Bankcard and American Express. Personal cheques are welcome -
they should be made payable to: "VideoCam Services".

VideoCam Services
90 Hilliers Rd.
Reynella  SA 5161
Phone:  +61 8 8322-2716
Fax: +61 8 8387-5810
Email: videocam@videocam.net.au                                                    
WWW: http://videocam.net.au


For those who prefer to order from a US company, the book is available from Loadstar in the USA
(1-800-831-2694). Item #900920.  The price is $30 including shipping in the USA. Loadstar accepts
credit card, check and money orders. (VideoCam Services can not accept money orders).  

The 3rd Edition will have an additional chapter covering TCP/IP Connections (such as PPP or SLIP),
so the number of chapters has increased to 18, plus appendix material. I'll be putting together a press
release regarding the 3rd Edition soon.

Via The Commodore Information Center web site (http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html) 