Trailing Edge Technology 

by Rolf Miller

A 64 accomplishes 90% of the work done with computers at this desk.  The other 10% is done with a
pre-Pentium computer cobbled together from discards.  It uses Windows 3.1 to accomplish its primary
function of sending and receiving e-mail via Juno.  The bridge between these two platforms is a 1541
disk drive connected via an X1541 cable to the Windows machine running the Star Commander
program. 

Putting together this pre-Pentium computer necessitated learning a little bit of MS-DOS.  And let me
say that compared to Commodore's DOS, MS-DOS is a terribly clumsy way of doing things. 
Nonetheless, DOS allows activity not easily accomplished, if it can be done at all, from within
Windows.  This explains why Windows contains an MS-DOS icon that allows entering DOS.  This
also explains a late evening call from a former Commodore user struggling with the MS-DOS prompt
on his Windows 95 machine. 

The sad thing about this is that what he was trying to do is something he used to easily accomplish with
his Commodore.  Adding insult to injury, his Windows machine was leading edge technology when he
bought it just a couple of years ago for well over $1000.  That's the injury.  The insult is that a similar
machine can be had today for a tenth as much.  The truth of this is known because a recent
development required obtaining a like machine. 

The need stemmed from the occasional use of certain sites on the web which invoke high security
encryption.  Recent upgrades to those sites now require the newest web browsers.  And you guessed it:
Windows 3.1 can no more handle the newest web browsers than can GEOS 1.3 run Wheels.*  And if
you think loading a program from a datasette is slow, you haven't seen a pre-Pentium computer trying
to run Windows 95. 

I had initially thought to patch together a Windows 95 machine. But for not much more than the cost of
an evening out, it's not worth the effort.  I also rejected out of hand the option of purchasing a new
machine.  And in spite of those who make fun of what I choose to call "frugality," cost is not the only
consideration.  It rather has to do with maintaining the link with Commodore. 

Commodore fell off the back edge of technology some years ago. That doesn't affect the usefulness of
the machine within its capabilities, but the leading edge of technology is rapidly widening the gap that
must be bridged if a Commodore is to be used interactively with the other platform. 

There are, of course, several means to form that link, some more efficient than others.  They include
telecommunications, direct RS-232 connections, and disk media manipulation via Big Blue (or Little
Red) Reader.  But for every day use, I have found nothing easier than the X1541 connection. 

The widening technology gap is beginning to strain this bridge. First, the X1541 cable connects to the
IBM-type computer's 25-pin printer port.  Newer machines are appearing without this porting.
Second, the Star Commander program must run in DOS outside of Windows; to do otherwise messes
up the timing requirements of the 1541.  This is still possible in both 95 & 98, but DOS is scheduled to
be abandoned in newer versions of Windows.  Third, the 1541 cannot handle data at the high speeds of
these machines.  The Star Commander program compensates for this with a built-in delay which is
adjustable to a limit.  Newer machines exceed that limit. 

For me, therefore, working with the oldest technology that does the job is essential to maintaining the
Commodore at the hub my computer activities.  And every time I get a call for help from Windows
users, especially former Commodore users, the decision to stay with my 64 is reaffirmed.

*The latest version of Wheels can be installed using any version of GEOS, 1.3 or higher (the same can't
be said for the Windows 3.1/new web browser incompatibility).

(From the Internet, via the Commodore Information Center,
http://home.att.net/~rmestel/commodore.html) 