The Write Stuff Auto-Save Feature

by Dick Estel & Mark Miller

For those of you who've been using The Write Stuff word processor without thoroughly digesting the
manual, here is an explanation of a couple of the features that are mentioned but not emphasized. These
features can speed up your work and make you appreciate this outstanding program a little more.

Normally, when you want to save a document, you press [CTRL] s and then type the document's
filename and hit [RETURN]. Or, you can press [UP ARROW] to get to the command line (the line of
commands at the top of the screen) and then either cursor over to highlight "Save" and hit [RETURN]
OR hit s. You then enter the document's filename and hit [RETURN]. This will cause the disk drive to
store your document under the filename that you have selected.

If that filename is in use and listed in the disk directory, TWS will stop, tell you that a file with that name
already exists on the disk, and ask you if you want to replace the existing file with the document you are
trying to save. You can use the cursor key to highlight either Yes or No, and then hit [RETURN] or
you can hit y or n. If you tell TWS yes, then it will save your document under the filename you have
chosen and the previous document with that filename will be lost. If you tell TWS no, then it will return
to your document, ready for further typing or instructions.

Replacing an existing file is usually done to update a document in progress. Let's say that you are typing
a three page report. You don't want to get through 2 and 1/2 pages and then have the power go out on
you and lose all that you have in memory. Or, more likely, you might print a rough draft, and either
erase the document from memory or turn off the computer without saving the document.

You might want to consider saving the document every 5 to 10 minutes. That way, if something
happens, you will only have lost the last 5 to 10 minutes of work, not the whole thing.

To make this process a little easier, you can use the AUTOSAVE option, which allows you to tap
[CONTROL] then s, and instantly save the current document. Set up this feature as follows: Before
you start typing your document, tap [CONTROL] 1 n. This produces a reverse "n." Next type @0:-
followed by the file name. Do NOT use quote marks! Press [RETURN] after typing your file name.
From then on, tapping [CONTROL] s immediately saves the document. Remember, this will replace
the previous version without asking if you want to do this!

This makes saving a lot easier, encouraging you to periodically save the document during the typing
process. One caveat: DO NOT USE QUOTATIONS MARKS IN THE FILENAME. Mark made
this mistake once, and lost his document because the filename started with a " and when surrounded by
quotation marks to delineate the file name, looked like two quote marks in a row. So the computer tried
to find a file with a name between the quote marks. But there was nothing between the quote marks, so
it wouldn't try. (He finally recovered the document with the help of a track and sector editor, but the
important thing is - don't use quotation marks in your file name.)

This autosave feature can be found on page 4 and 24 of the TWS 64 manual.

NON-PRINTING NOTE: The reverse n can be used any time you would like to include a comment in
your document that you don't want printed. Any text you type between a reverse n and the next
[RETURN] will appear on the screen but will not print to your hard copy or on the preview screen.
Just tap [CONTROL] 1 n. This will produce the reverse n. Then type your comment, followed by
[RETURN]. 

