There are no multiple personalities disorder, that is due to a single case in the story and because the person who wrote it down just wanted to get famous with this story and everything has been published unchecked.

Although I did not read the book [0] that processed the story, the abstract ... is quite informative. In summary, her mother was schizophrenic, then and now nobody wants to be diagnosed with schizophrenia, so you say that you have "multiple personality" to avoid being pushed into the role of the schizophrenic mass murderer. The least known is that 90% of schzophrenics are non-violent and only 10% are violent: Breivik who murdered 77 innocent people. But also TV series such. "Criminal Minds" where in every third episode the mass murderer is a schizophrenic contributes to the image of the assassinating schizophrenic, even if statistically 90% of them are wrong. I am myself affected by schizophrenia and know myself therefore relatively well.

But what exists is Dissociative Personality Disorder, where people fall into a kind of rigidity due to traumatic events such as rape, such as the Oppossum's in Ice Age, and e.g. have to be brought back with ammonjack or smelling salt. Since I know personally victims who show this behavior ...

What you are now saying is that there is a large conspirancy and that its maybe part of CIA project MKULTRA in the 1950s really tried to put people into a dissociative state so that they could then Politically motivated murders [1,2], which did not work but still produced many victims. Mostly people who were in psychiatry and thus had no legal rights or at least less rights than ordinary citizens but also people who are e.g. thus threatened illegal things of the state (USA) to leaks [3]. And that is such a classic conspiracy theory that most people once sit up until they have read the appropriate literature.

What does this have to do with the Pizzagate?

Well, actually quite a lot, as a schizophrenia patient, one is much more sensitive and breaks even on small things even just a wrong word, or ignorance by a person close to him. Often the schizophrenia patients also feel threatened in their sexual integrity because the smallest (eg a primitive pervert joke about sex) sustains it for days in the mind (in my opinion, a schizophrenic hears not just voices but echoes of past events) him followed to the dreams. If that comes from a equal aged that is perhaps all right, but it comes from someone who is much older, for the patient this statement of the elderly person (eg the perverse joke) to the delusion, then the "virtual" sexual harassment History and then rape (subjectively perceived, because in reality it was just a perverted and inappropriate joke) but for the schizophrenia patient, it becomes a perceived reality. What you should not accuse the schizophrenia patient, because he can not help that he is suffering from schizophrenia (dopamine excess in the brain)

And so then from an inappropriate joke, a "rape", at least if the Schzophrenia patient / patient 1:1 believes what he / she says. Without that he / she really had planned to put a wrong story into circulation, but for him / her still perceived Realtiät ...

What I am clearly exempting from this statement are real rapes, but it is clear to everyone that when he is talking to a person who was really raped he has to answer carefully because he does not want to tell a rape victim that he / she is lying. It is clear to everyone that this would cause even more harm in the victim's psyche. But so it is very difficult to distinguish between real rape and conceited rape. I think there 99% of the interlocutors instinctively times the victim / "victim" agree, because the few do not want to get involved in the role of the evil of the rape victims believe ...

[0] https: //www.csicop.org /.../ end_to_a_twisted_and_false ...
[1] The Manchurian Candidate (book)
[2] The Manchurian Candidate (film)
[3] wormwood (Netflix)

Sorry that this was such a long text, I hope it gives you an insight into this topic ...



