The Interface
Fresno, California; February/March 2000
Taking 8 Bits to the 21st Century

"There is a price we pay for having everything we ever wanted to 
know at our fingertips--and that price is that we have everything 
we ever wanted to know at our fingertips."
-Fender Tucker

Contents:


History of Wheels 
Club Bylaws
Viruses and Commodore 
Nine Lives of Commodore
Editor: Paperless Society?
Member Drawing Results
Treasurer's Report
President: The State of On-Line Service for Commodore


The Genesis of Wheels: 
A Look At How It All Came About

Once upon a time, Maurice Randall bought a Commodore 64, and it came with a graphical 
operating system called GEOS. At first he had little to do with it. It seemed cumbersome and slow, 
and he didn't have much use for it. Of course, like most people early on, he only had one disk drive! 
GEOS is awful to use with a single drive. There really isn't much point in it. 

Soon, he acquired a second drive, a 1581, and then he got a Commodore 1700 REU and found out 
that he could increase the capacity of this 128K ram expansion unit to 512K. He bought the chips 
and performed the operation. He began to take another look at that GEOS system and got so 
interested in it that he upgraded to GEOS 2.0. Soon afterward, he got a 128 and had to have GEOS 
for that. He was hooked. 

Over the next several years, Maurice learned how to write GEOS programs, and he got quite 
familiar with the system. Back when he sent in his GEOS registration card, he filled out the little 
questionnaire that came with it. It asked what type of applications you would like to see developed 
for GEOS. He filled in a suggestion about a fax program. They probably had a good laugh back at 
Berkeley Softworks when they saw that one! Little did he know that he would someday create that 
piece of software himself. 

A few years back, Maurice realized a need for something better in the way of disk drivers for 
GEOS. Sure, that was already done, Configure had disk drivers, and gateWay had disk drivers. But 
there was just something there that was missing. For one, the native driver support on the CMD 
devices was never perfected. The RAMLink was supported, but not really like it should be. There 
were RAMdisk drivers, but they could also be improved. 
Maurice jumped in and started a new project. He began to study a couple of the existing drivers to 
see what there was that he didn't like. He saw there was room for improvement. So, he wrote his 
own variation of the drivers and adapted them to work on the CMD Hard Drive in the native 
partitions. Previously, only gateWay supported this type of driver. But Maurice had already created 
a user interface known as geoSHELL, and it was flexible enough to be used with any GEOS driver. 
Soon, Maurice had his own version of the native driver that he could use with geoSHELL and did 
not need gateWay to use it. GeoSHELL had the ability to install the drivers during bootup. He had 
to avoid using the Desktop, though, as it was written in such a way that it would only work with 
1541, 1571, and 1581 type devices. And it was really a cobble job making it work with 1581 drives. 
The Desktop failed to follow certain GEOS programming rules, which caused it to not work with 
the native driver. 

Using the native drivers was nice, since subdirectories allowed better organization of files as well 
as making better use of the available space. Pretty soon Maurice did a version of the driver for the 
FD drive and then the RAMLink. But these drivers still were not perfect. Using native partitions 
within GEOS was difficult, not from a user standpoint, but from the actual design of the operating 
system. The biggest problem was that the block allocation map (BAM) couldn't be stored in 
memory, like GEOS has always done it. A native BAM can be as big as 8K. The BAM is what 
keeps track of the sectors that are in use on the disk. 

Eventually, Maurice got the idea of replacing Configure. This only seemed logical since he had a 
small collection of disk drivers and it was Configure that has always stored and installed the drivers 
during bootup. But that also meant coming up with drivers for the other types of disk devices. This 
included the 41, 71, 81, and drivers for the FD, HD, and RAMLink using 1581 partitions. Then 
there was the 41, 71, and 81 RAMdisks too. Maurice took the drivers he had created and modified 
certain parts that were specific to the type of device that the driver was to be used with. 

Then a wild idea popped in his head. OK, now we've got a new Configure, but we could really use 
a new Desktop. Sure there's geoSHELL, but a good Desktop was still needed. He had started on 
something like that a few years ago and never finished it. It was called Dashboard and was to be 
released for the 128. Maurice dug out the source code to it and started modifying it and changing 
things until he came up with something even better. 

One thing led to another, and another, and another. Before you knew it, Maurice was working on 
upgrading the whole darn operating system. So, what began as a rather simple project of studying 
the problems in one disk driver, led up to a rather major undertaking. Maurice created an operating 
system with the feel of the old GEOS in many ways, but with a whole fresh new look to it and 
many new possibilities buried within. 

This material is Copyright 1997 by Maurice Randall. It may be reproduced without permission by 
any recognized Commodore User Group.


Fresno Commodore User Group Bylaws

Some revisions in the bylaws are in order. Following is the last revision, from December 1992):

Article I.  PURPOSE:  The purpose of the Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum is to serve 
the members who are users of Commodore micro-computers.

Article II.  MEMBERSHIP:  The membership shall be open to all persons interested in Commodore 
micro-computers, and who are interested in developing its use through an exchange of ideas.

Article III.  DUES:  Dues shall be twenty-four dollars ($24.00) per year, per family, 
non-refundable.  Each change in dues shall be approved in the month prior to the effective date of 
the change.  Notice of the change shall be printed in the club newsletter and announced at least one 
month prior to the club vote.

Article IV.  MEMBERSHIP YEAR:  The membership covers twelve (12) months starting with the 
month joined.

Article V.  MEETINGS:  Regular meetings of the Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum 
shall be held as determined by the Executive Committee, with input from members. Special 
meetings may be called by the Executive Committee or the members present at any regular 
meeting.

Article VI.  OFFICERS:  The officers shall consist of a President, Vice President, Secretary, 
Treasurer and three (3) to six (6) Board Members.  One or more positions may be combined at the 
discretion of the Executive Committee.  These officers shall comprise the Executive Committee.  
All officers shall serve without compensation.

   A.  Terms of Office:  All terms shall be one (1) year.

   B.  PRESIDENT:  Shall preside at all meetings of the Fresno Commodore User 
Group/SixtyFourum including the Executive Committee.

   C.  VICE PRESIDENT:  shall preside in the absence of the President and shall serve as program 
chairperson.

   D.  TREASURER:  shall keep all books, receive and disperse all funds, and shall report at least 
annually to the membership on the financial health of the Fresno Commodore User 
Group/SixtyFourum.

   E.  SECRETARY:  shall keep minutes of the Executive Committee, a record of the activities of 
the Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum, and oversee the historical files.

   F.  BOARD MEMBERS:  shall attend all Executive Committee meetings and with the other 
officers oversee the business affairs of the Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum.

   G.  STAFF MEMBERS: shall be voluntary and appointed, and shall be allowed to participate in 
the decisions of the Executive Committee.

Article VII.  EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:  The Executive Committee shall oversee the business 
affairs of the Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum.  It shall meet regularly to conduct 
business.  A quorum shall consist of four (4) members.

Article VIII.  NOMINATING COMMITTEE:  The President shall appoint a nominating committee 
to present a slate of officers by the October regular meetings.

Article IX.  ELECTIONS:  Election of officers shall take place at the November meetings.  At this 
time the report of the Nominating Committee shall be heard.  Nominations may be made from the 
floor provided the person being nominated has agreed to the nomination in advance.

Article X.  VACANCIES:  Vacancies will occur thirty (30) days following notice received by the 
Executive Committee.  Vacancies will be filled by the membership at the next regular meeting.

Article XI.  FINANCES  All checks shall be signed by two (2) members of the Executive 
Committee, at least one of which shall be the Treasurer or the President.  No check shall exceed the 
sum of $250.00 except by a vote of 2/3 of the membership attending the regular meetings.

Article XII.  QUORUM:  A quorum shall consist of those members present.

Article XIII.  AMENDMENTS:  These Bylaws may be amended or altered by a two-thirds majority 
of the members present at both of the regular meetings under the quorum provisions of Article XII.

Article XIV.  COPYRIGHTS:  The Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum has taken the 
position that it is illegal to sell or otherwise distribute copies of copyrighted software or 
publications without the express permission of the author or publisher.  Under this position the 
Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum specifically prohibits the sale or distribution of said 
copies during a meeting over which the Club has responsibility.

Article XV.  DISSOLUTION:  Fresno Commodore User Group/SixtyFourum shall use its funds to 
accomplish the objectives and purposes specified in these Bylaws, and no part of said funds shall 
inure, or be distributed to the members of the group.  On dissolution of Fresno Commodore User 
Group/SixtyFourum, any funds or property remaining shall be distributed to a non-profit 
organization toward the furthering of computer education.
 


Viruses and Commodore 

Virus checking is becoming a must-do activity at every turn on for those in the megacomputer 
world. To fail to check for viruses is to risk the entire contents of the hard drive. And since 
megacomputers rely on the hard drive for every aspect of their operation, an infected hard drive 
passes the organism to the whole system.

For that reason, it is becoming common practice to install a virus checking program that boots 
along with the Disk Operating System (DOS). This germ detector searches through the entire Disk 
Operating System and other data on the hard drive, looking for what shouldn't be there. If it finds 
any microbes, it eradicates them.

This process, of course, is time consuming. And when added to the time it takes to boot the Disk 
Operating System in the first place, it can leave the user waiting for what seems an eternity on these 
otherwise lighting-fast machines. This interminable startup delay prompted one who forsook what 
he called the "slow-as-a-slug" Commodore to utter an unprintable remark.

A computer virus, naturally, is not organic. It is a little bit of virulent program code that wedges 
itself into the Disk Operating System and spreads itself throughout the infected disk to cause 
whatever chaos it is programmed to do. Most viruses are coded to lie dormant until a specific event 
occurs, like a date, time, or other computer related activity. The number of different computer 
viruses now count in the thousands. 

There is an interesting parallel between the real world of microorganisms and this world of 
computer diseases. Filthy environments provide the breeding ground for both. Just as the one 
plagues those who share needles, so does the other curse those who share copyrighted software. As 
one said, pirated software is nothing more than a painted woman offering herself as the real thing, 
carrying the scourge of all those who pass her around.

Viruses, as such, are not a problem for Commodore 8-bit machines. This is mainly due to the fact 
that the disk drives used, including hard drives, rely on a ROM-based Disk Operating System. 
ROM, being Read Only Memory on a chip, cannot be changed. Therefore, Commodore's Disk 
Operating System cannot be infected.

MS-DOS, Windows, etc., on the other hand, are themselves programs. They reside on the hard 
disk. Hence, infecting the Disk Operating System with the nefarious coding not only affects the 
whole machine, but allows its spreading to everything coming into or going out of the machine. 

However, there are a few dirty tricks to which Commodore users are susceptible. One such nasty is 
a countdown routine hidden in a program that causes the disk to be unexpectedly reformatted. But 
these mean-spirited shenanigans are limited to the programs in which they reside and imperil only 
disk in the drive. 

Other malevolent schemes designed to wipe out files or corrupt data do exist. And some of these do 
have the ability to copy themselves to any disks used in conjunction with the disk containing them. 
Again, though, that is the limit of their viability. The spurious coding dies at turn off, and it cannot 
resurrect itself until the disk containing it is again used. 

The foregoing should not alarm anyone in the Commodore community. Besides the built-in 
immunities inherent with the Commodore Disk Operating System, the reprobates given to 
inventing such maladies no longer find any satisfaction afflicting the beggarly world of 
Commodore. They have mega-fish to fry! Hence, most of their dirty work has long since seen the 
light of day and been eradicated. 

A related benefit is that during the same time users uncovered the mischievous deeds, the bugs that 
invariably accompany initial program development and new equipment designs also came to light. 
As a result, the critters whose tracks and droppings make for messy use are all but nonexistent in 
today's popular programs. To a slightly lesser extent, the insects crawling around inside 
Commodore equipment have also been exterminated. And as for the surviving bugs, today's 
programs for the most part avoid them, making them of little consequence. Commodore users, 
therefore, operate in a relatively virus-free and bug-free environment. That makes for a generally 
healthy computer experience. And, like good health, the worth of this blessing is fully appreciated 
only by those who don't have it.

(Compiled from various sources; reprinted from The Gazette, newsletter of CIVIC 64/128 User 
Group, Oxnard CA)


The Nine Lives of Commodore

by Dick Estel

You'll find this does not cover all nine of the lives mentioned in the title--because Commodore has 
not yet reached it's final life.

First Commodore was a "low cost" home computer, priced around $600, well below the thousand 
or more required for a Radio Shack or Apple product about the same time.

Next the price dropped substantially, with the bottom retail store price in the neighborhood of $150 
to $200 for the C-64. During this incarnation over ten million C-64's were sold worldwide. At the 
same time the disrespect that Commodore has suffered ever since began, with the epithet of the day 
being "game machine." Part of this was due to the fact that Commodore was in fact the best game 
machine around. IBM had crude graphics and no sound other than a pitiful "beep."

Then came the decline of Commodore the company, which stayed away from the pattern of 
innovation, advancement, and obsolescence marking the rest of the PC world. In its final years the 
company gave birth to another excellent, non-compatible machine, the Amiga. With the demise of 
the company, Commodore entered the "orphan" phase.

But there were plenty of "foster parents" willing to continue to care for their machines. User groups 
became the primary method of support. 

Soon Windows arose as the primary force in the PC world (borrowing liberally from Apple who 
had borrowed from Xerox). At this time Commodore became "obsolete."

This seems to have been the status for the last five or six years, even as unsung heros labored to 
drag the Commodore into the 21st century with RAM expansion, hard drives and processor speed-
up hardware like the Super CPU.

Now Commodore seems to have entered a new life era. I'm not sure what to call it, but possibilities 
include "venerated classic," "historic curio," and "tool of unrepentant neanderthals." This phase is 
marked by a strange interest in these "archaic" machines by the popular mass media. Last summer 
a positive and respectful article appeared in the New York Times. At the Vintage Computer Show 
in Santa Clara, Robert Bernardo made contact with people from several publications, which has led 
to some activity by Wired magazine, which usually has its compass pointed unwaveringly to the 
future. Wireless has interviewed Robert, programmer Maurice Randall and others, and conducted a 
photo session with Robert in early January.

At the January meeting Robert showed us a Canadian magazine, Shift, which is kind of a Wireless 
for the great white north. It had an article on the Vintage Computer Show and featured Robert's 
photo in the table of contents as well as the article, along with a half dozen other pictures from the 
show.

I myself received a call from The Fresno Bee to ask about "people who use old computers." This 
culminated in an article in The Bee's "Neighbors" section, which is sort of an attempt to print a 
folksy small town newspaper for various regions of our metropolis. The article featured a photo of 
an Amiga (Commodore's "other" brand) and its proud owner, along with comments from Amiga 
users, a brief nod to Atari, and my own comments on the state of Commodore.

Let's see, that's about five lives. So I guess we have at least four more to look forward to as we 
plunge headlong into a new century. A good time to keep this in mind: If you never change your 
style, it's bound to come back again. 


What the Editor Said
By Dick Estel

A Paperless Society?

We are now nearly three decades into the home computer era. Yet the paperless, cashless, 
electronic society this "revolution" promised seems nearly as far away as ever.

For example: I have a dozen or so bills that I pay monthly, semi-monthly, quarterly, semi-annually 
or annually. Only about half of these are done by some form of automatic funds transfer. One of 
these was the phone bill, which used a pay-by-phone system. This required a phone call each month 
that took as long as writing and mailing a check, but it did eliminate the licking and sticking and the 
33 cent postage cost. Now this bill is deducted directly from my bank account.

I pay my car insurance bill via the Internet. When I started a few months ago, I had to enter all the 
numbers on my check, with characters such as # @ and & replacing the computer symbols that are 
part of the routing number. I had to look at a key to determine which character to enter. When I 
made my first payment after the latest renewal, this requirement had been eliminated. So there is 
progress.

I have a first and second mortgage on my home, both negotiated with my employee credit union. 
The first one was transferred to a third party, and is paid by payroll deduction. The credit union will 
not accept payroll deduction for the other one. Instead I must write a check each month and mail it 
to the credit union where my payroll check is deposited. Go figure.
                   -Dick Estel



I've Got Five Dollars and
It's Saturday Night

It's getting easier to give money away again; we only had to draw two names in December to find a 
winner. Dan Rowland lost out, then Doug Cunningham's name came up, rewarding him richly for 
one of his rare visits to our meeting. In the new year, it was even quicker--Chester Sohm won on 
the first spin of the wheel.


FCUG Financial Report
January to December 1999

Balance as of 12/1/98: 	$1234.50

Income in 1999

Dues		$264.00
Raffle	 	99.00
Miscellaneous Sales		7.30
Disk of the Quarter		4.00
Donation		10.00
Auction		42.00

TOTAL		$426.30

Expenses in 1999

Interface (print & mail)	$372.46
Member drawing (cash)	40.00
Postage (cash)	52.84
Miscellaneous (cash)	10.00
Picnic: Food & Supplies	45.88
Door Prizes	51.74
Commodore World	32.95
Computerfest Fee	100.00

TOTAL		$705.87

Bank balance: 	$919.86

-Zella Mallard, Treasurer


C=Scape
By Robert Bernardo

I was in the same boat as a lot of Commodore online users at the end of 1999. In October Delphi 
announced that they were pulling the plug on all text access to their online service via local phone 
numbers or dial-ups. By December 31 the nationwide dial-ups through Sprintnet or Tymet would 
disappear. After December 31 the only way to get into all the text services of Delphi would be to 
telnet in through another independent service provider (ISP). The only consolation for losing my 
local dial-up was that Delphi would reduce its rates; previously I had been paying $10 a month for 
4 hours of time; now Delphi would offer telnet members a yearly rate of $34.95 with unlimited 
time.

I wanted Delphi in order to access their Commodore Forum bulletin board (which had important 
messages from the likes of Maurice Randall, Wheels programmer), to utilize their small C= library 
of 3,000+ files, and to read the Usenet group, comp.sys.cbm, with their news reader (which I 
preferred to others).

Though other users would have trouble finding a local ISP which supported a Commodore 
telnetting into Delphi, I thought I wouldn't have any problems. I also belonged to the Genie online 
service, and I would be able to telnet into Delphi through Genie. At the C= Forum, the members 
complained about not being able to easily access the service anymore. If they couldn't get to 
Delphi, they'd have to drop out.

However, my smugness disappeared when Genie announced at the beginning of December that 
they would do away with their "old" service in favor of  "new" service. The old service was 
especially for text-based computers, like the Commodore. There was the Commodore Roundtable 
with its own bulletin board, discussion (chat) groups, and download library of 17,000+ files. The 
new service would be more friendly toward computers with graphical browsers, like PC, Mac, and 
Amiga, though Commodore would still be able to access it. However, the fly in the ointment was 
that Genie would discontinue most of their nationwide dial-ups; most Genie phone numbers would 
disappear as would their alternate connections via Sprintnet. Supposed reasons ranged from 
needing to use faster lines to Sprintnet not being Y2K compliant. Here in California, the only local 
Genie numbers would be centered around the Los Angeles and San Francisco areas--not good for 
users in the rest of the state and especially not good for me.

Genie was my main service. I received nearly all of my e-mail through Genie. I made good use of 
the download library to get files to fill up the disks-of-the-quarter for the Fresno Commodore User 
Group. I surfed the Internet through the Lynx text browser at Genie. I chatted online with fellow 
Commodorians who were serious about the use of our fine computers.

All of this was to change on December 27. At first I thought I could stay with the new Genie. Long 
distance phoning to the nearest Genie dial-up would cost me five cents a minute in addition to the 
new $19.95 a month fee with unlimited time. However, as the fateful day approached, I became 
more and more disenchanted.

I personally telephoned a Genie service tech and asked him about the new service. He assured me 
that I would be able to still use my Commodore with Genie. The e-mail program would be 
different. My e-mail address would be different. Then I asked the important question. Would the 
Commodore download library be transferred to the new Genie? His reply: "We're still thinking 
about it."

Huh?! The new service had been in use for the last two years... and still no plan to bring the library 
over? The fates of the other download libraries of other computers were probably still in the air, too 
--the Apple II library, the Amiga library. All of these to be lost! It was a replay of the bad memories 
of the QuantumLink library of 40,000+ C= files and the Compuserve C= library disappearing. 
"Still thinking"? Shocking!

After this bad news, I thought that I could hang onto the service for at least three months to give 
them a chance to transfer the library. I still wanted to sign up for the new service, but Genie threw 
another monkey wrench into the process. Because I didn't have a local Genie number, they wanted 
me to sign up through their long distance service at nine cents a minute and dial into only one 
phone number. I travel around California, and I needed access to my service wherever I went. That 
meant I needed to use any Genie number that was closest to me. In that case, they wanted me to 
sign a waiver, absolving Genie of all long distance charges I may incur. Only when the waiver was 
signed could I finish the sign-up process.

This was a strange way of doing business, but I duly waited for the form to arrive in the mail. The 
extra days of waiting gave me extra time to think about what I was doing. At the Saturday night 
chats at the Genie Roundtable, my e-friends were incredulous and anxious. They had the same 
feelings as those members at Delphi. If they couldn't access the new Genie easily, they'd drop out. 
If they couldn't easily get together to chat, they'd drop out. If the download library were not in 
place, they'd drop out. Cincinatti would have a local number but not Muskegon. Canada would be 
left out entirely.

At every chat prior to December 27, the talk was the same. Any new news? Any more local access 
numbers? We exchanged alternate e-mail addresses several times, some complaining that the 
alternate would have to be accessed with a non-Commodore computer. I was still holding out hope. 
I had sent in my waiver, and December 24 I called Genie to finally finish signing up. Customer 
service had left early for the day. Tech support was still there, but they couldn't do anything and 
advised me to call Monday. That was lousy! The final chat on Christmas night brought more bad 
news. Even the new phone numbers for the new Genie weren't working right. People would key in 
their user name and password and would still be locked out of the system.

That did it. I gave up on Genie. I called JPS Net; they advertised text-based, shell accounts for 
older computers, good rates, and dial-ups throughout California and other western states. With 
Gaelyne Gasson's book, The Internet for Commodore 64/128 Users, in hand I quizzed one of their 
support technicians on the intricacies of their system. Though he had to put me on hold several 
times (probably to find the answers to my questions), I was satisfied and signed up. My worries 
were over. I'd have e-mail, Internet access, and news reader functions. Beeeep, wrong! When I 
dialed into their system, I keyed in my user name and password and then received a startling 
message, "PPP dialer starting..." No! Commodores currently don't understand what to do with this 
protocol; PC's, Macs, and Amigas do. I tried several times and received the same response several 
times. I finally called the techs at JPS and asked what was going on. They sheepishly admitted that 
I could get to the shell only after logging on through the PPP dialer. I reminded them that my older 
computer didn't understand PPP and that I'd have to access the shell directly when I logged on. 
They responded that wasn't how their system worked. Needless to say, I dropped their service 
immediately and was not charged.

I had one other chance. Bill Webster, Genie e-friend of the South Bay (San Francisco) region, told 
me that ValueNet had text-based shell accounts, and he gave me a phone number to call. December 
27 I called, and to my surprise, the sales representative was sympathetic and supportive. I asked 
him if they offered shell accounts. Yes. I asked him if I had to cross any strange PPP barrier. 
Definitely no. He asked me what computer was I going to use with their system. A C-128D. He 
was excited and amazed that Commodores would be using their system. He wanted to know more 
about the capabilities of our machines. I briefly explained about CMD hard drives, JPEG viewers, 
the SuperCPU, and the upcoming Wave graphical web browser from Maurice Randall and partners. 
He was fascinated and explained that when the Wave was ready, I could sign on for a "combo" 
account which would give me a text-based shell and a graphical account for one low price. He 
transferred me to their tech, C.J., who was versed in older computers and ValueNet's shell accounts. 
C.J. knew his stuff. He answered all of my specific questions, and he remarked that they had older 
PC DOS, Ataris, and Commodores using their shell account.

I signed on. Out of their various payment plans, I accepted the 3-month plan for $55, and that gave 
me unlimited time and a 10 mb. online workspace. ValueNet has local dial-ups throughout 
California but not in other states. At the end of 3 months, if I'm fully pleased with their service, I'll 
choose either the 6-month plan for $100 or the 12-month plan for $150.

Though it took a day for them to work out the bugs in signing me up into their shell account, my 
phone calls to the sales reps were always very courteous and helpful. In fact, it was far easier to 
reach the reps than C.J.

With my new service, I've been learning the ways of the Pine e-mail, the Tin news reader, a more 
modern Lynx text web browser, FTP (File Transfer Protocol), and other details. The text-based 
account with ValueNet is not totally a shell. With a shell you might be given an input prompt and 
nothing else. Then you'd have to give commands on that command line. Upon logging into 
ValueNet, you're given a menu with choices like e-mail, news reader, Internet tools, file transfers, 
file system functions, and a shell. Fairly easy but even more so with Gaelyne Gasson's book to 
guide me.

Every day I become more proficient in using the system. My Genie e-friends are now being 
directed to a Sunday night chat on the Internet, and for the most part, we're back together again. 
And all the Genie C= files are not totally lost; David Witmer (a.k.a. Snogpitch), president of the 
Cincinnati Commodore Computer Club and former Genie chat host, saved them all to floppy and 
ZIP disks, the only problem being that they are not accessible online. The new millennium dawns, 
and I'm still online with my Commodore. Things are looking up!

Value Net Internetwork Services, Inc., 2855 Mitchell Dr., Suite 105, Walnut Creek, California 
94598, U.S.A.. Phone: 925 943-5769 E-mail: info@value.net Website: www.value.net

The Internet for Commodore 64/128 Users, available from: VideoCam Services, 90 Hilliers Rd., 
Reynella, SA 5161, Australia. Phone: 61 8 8322-2716 FAX: 61 8 8387-5810 or 707 897-0676 
(USA) E-mail: videocam@videocam.net.au Website: http://videocam.net.au

Also available from Loadstar, J & F Publishing, Inc., 443 Gladstone Blvd., Shreveport, LA 71104, 
U.S.A.. Phone: 318 868-8727 E-mail: fender@loadstar.com Website: www.loadstar.com

David Witmer -e-mail: snogpitch@prodigy.net




OFFICERS and KEYPERSONS
(Area Code 559)

President:	Robert Bernardo 627-2438
Vice President:	Helen Silvas 227-8005
Secretary-Treasurer  Zella Mallard 291-2452
Past President:	Ralph Parrott 229-9912

Board of Trustees:
	Del Contreras 227-5375
	Sandy Dippollet 299-1275
	Chester Sohm 855-8543
	Bill Gilbert 439-8202
	Henry Fry 291-0581

The Interface Editor: Dick Estel 224-4163
Contributing Editors:
Bob Bernardo
Mailing List:	Sandy Dippollet	
Technicians:	Del Contreras, Doug Cunningham
Librarian:	Dick Estel
Programs:	Ralph Parrott
Demo Coordinator:	Helen Silvas
Club Equipment:	Helen Silvas
Store:	Dick Estel
Meeting Place Reservation, Setup & Cleanup: 
	Dick Estel, Zella Mallard & Del Contreras
Ribbon Reinking:	Robert Bernardo

On-Line Contacts:

FCUG home page-- is http://videocam.net.au/fcug/
or http://home.att.net/~rmestel/fcug.html
Robert Bernardo rbernardo@value.net

Editor's Internet Exchange Offer

We'll be happy to send any of the articles in our newsletter to other clubs via 
E-mail, to save the hassle of typing. 
And we'd appreciate the same from those clubs that have access to Internet E-
mail. Send requests to: 
dickestel@att.net.




Fresno PC Users Group
Meetings 1st Monday of each month, 7:30 p.m. at Ramada Inn, Shaw & Fresno.
Recorded information phone: 496 3974
Membership: 434 0941 or 225 8824
6751 N Blackstone # 395
Fresno CA 93710



THE SMALL PRINT

The Fresno Commodore User Group/Sixty-Fourum is a club whose members share an 
interest in Commodore 8-bit 
computers. Our mailing address is 3487 E Terrace Ave, Fresno, CA 93703. We meet 
at 10 a.m., the first Saturday of the 
month,  in the Sarah McCardle Room of the main library, 2420 Mariposa, between N 
& O St.  See the back page for a map. 
The Board of Directors meets immediately following the general meeting. The 
meetings generally include demonstrations, 
discussion, drawings, and individual help.

Dues are $12 for 12 months. New members receive a "New Member Disk" containing a 
number of useful utilities. 
Members receive a subscription to this newsletter, access to a public domain 
disk library, technical assistance, and reduced 
prices on selected software.

The Interface is sent to our members and other Commodore Clubs on an exchange 
basis. Clubs publishing newsletters with 
informative content are encouraged to add us to their mailing list. Permission 
to reproduce content from The Interface is 
granted provided credit is given to the source and, when identified, the author. 
Club members are encouraged to submit 
articles, tips or ideas for articles. To insure inclusion, any material should 
be submitted prior to the 15th.

Disclaimer: The club, its officers, members, and authors are not responsible for 
the accuracy of the contents of The 
Interface or the results of actions based on its contents.

Our disk library contains over 2000 public domain programs for the C64 and C128. 
Members are entitled to copies of these 
disks at no cost if a blank disk is provided. We do not deal with pirated, 
violent or obscene programs. Please call our 
attention to any programs found in our library which may violate these 
standards. 

Sales and Services:
Disk Notchers $5
Disk drive trouble diagnosis and minor repair: $10 (members only)
Computer Reset switches: $7 (members only)
Ribbon reinking: $1 (members only, 2 per month max)
31 graphics disks: $3 each, $50 for all, plus $1 per disk if to be mailed.
Blank disks: $.50 each, 25 for $10
The Write Stuff 64: $12 ($14 for non-members)
The Write Stuff 128 $16 ($18 for non-members)
The Write Stuff Spell Checker 64/128: $8 ($10 for 
non-members)
Postage & Handling for mail orders: $1.25


Next meeting
June 3 10 a.m.
Fresno County Library
2420 Mariposa, 
between N & O St.
(Sarah McCardle Room - Upstairs)
(for elevator, use main entrance on Mariposa St.)


Fresno Commodore Users Group
3487 E Terrace Ave
Fresno CA 93703



