Inyerface
Somewhere Out West; April 1 2000
Taking 8 Bucks to the Movies

"What, me worry?" 
--Maharishi Aeneuman


Contents:

More Apple Lawsuits
A Tale of Two Toasters 
Editor: The Return of Inyerface
Measurement Conversions 
Commodore Pix on the PC
UPPER and Lower Case
President: Giving it Up for C= 
Retroactivism  
Rounding Decimals 


More Computer Company Lawsuits

by Andrew Smith 

Apple Computers of Cupertino has announced today that they will bring suit against anyone using 
the set of characters known as the alphabet as they are of the opinion that the alphabet is covered 
under several of Apple's patents issued in 1978. Attorneys for the company refused comment when 
questioned on the rumors that Apple was investigating the feasibility of pursuing users of the 
Arabic numeral set.  One highly placed Apple source stated that the company would aggressively 
pursue infringers of Apple patents, however minor the infraction. 

In other news today, McDonalds and Apple both filed suit against each other in different venus 
regarding the trademark "Mc" and "Mac."  It is McDonald's position that Apple be enjoined from 
using the trademark "Mac" as it is too similar to McDonalds own trademark "Mc" and that people 
may confuse Apple products with McDonald's products.  Attorneys for McDonalds were especially 
concerned with the possibilities inherent in the confusion of McDonald's "BIG MAC" and Apple's 
"MAC PLUS." Said one, "Can you imagine  the lawsuit possibilities  if a McDonalds customer 
were to break some teeth biting down on a MAC PLUS?"
   
In another court, Apple lawyers moved to prevent McDonalds from using the "Mc" trademark 
because it was too similar to Apple's own "Mac" trademark and that customers may confuse the 
two companies' products.  Of particular concern to Apple attorneys was the possible confusion 
between McDonald's "BIG MAC" and Apple's "MAC PLUS."  Said an attorney for Apple, "Can 
you imagine the damage that might be done if a user were to attempt to load a $750 copy of 
Pagemaker into a BIG MAC?"
   
Both Apple and McDonalds refused comment on the other's lawsuits beyond the regret that ours is 
such a litigious society.


Toaster Comparisons

by Dick Estel

Users of the Commodore Amiga are excited these days about the Video Toaster.  This product 
allows the control of video and graphic effects, such as wipes, dissolves and other visual magic.  
Before the arrival of the Toaster, equipment to accomplish these tasks was priced in the range of 
$10,000 and up.  The toaster costs around $1500.
   
As a Commodore 64/128 user, I cannot use the Video Toaster, but I have achieved good results for 
several years with the Toastmaster toaster.  I thought a comparison would be useful.
   
Probably the biggest advantage of the Toastmaster is that it does not have to be connected to a 
computer.  In fact, it is a stand alone device which accomplishes its work without peripherals or 
even software (unless you call bread software).
   
The Toastmaster allows control of the visual appearance and texture of the final product, with a 
range from soft light brown to board-hard black.  When it was new, the Toastmaster had an 
automatic control for this, and when the program had finished its work, the finished product popped 
out magically.
   
Due to wear and tear and old age, my Toastmaster has lost its popping ability, and currently 
requires the placement of a heavy object on the up/down lever in order to avoid premature ejection.  
This also necessitates intensive manual controls (watching it like a hawk) to prevent undesirable 
results.
   
While it is true that the Video Toaster produces a wider range of colors and effects than the 
Toastmaster, the latter costs only one percent of what one has to pay for the VT.  Overall I am 
satisfied with my toaster, and although it won't connect to my Commodore, I am confident that 
Doug or Del could build an interface for me.

(Circa 1990)


What the Editor Did

The editor, having grown increasingly lazy (although gaining in wisdom and charm), recycled the 
graphics and most of the text for these two pages from the early 90's.

The first April Fool edition of Inyerface appeared in 1990, followed by a second and final 
appearance in 1991.

By the way, your fly is unzipped. Made ya look!

--Rick Mason (the editor's biographer)


Measurement Conversions

10*12 microphones = 1 megaphone
10*12 pins = 1 terrapin
10*21 piccolos = 1 gigolo
10 rations = 1 decoration
10 millipedes = 1 centipede
1 centipede/second = 1 velocipede
3 1/3 tridents = 1 decadent
10*6 bicycles = 2 megacycles
10 monologues = 5 dialogues
10^ -18 boys = 1 atta boy
10^ 9 goats = 1 nanogoat
2*10^ 3 mocking birds = 2 kilo mockingbird
10*5 dollars = 1 Millicent
2*10*3 millinaries = 4 seminaries
1 milli-Helen = the amount of beauty required to launch one ship

(from SCOPE, Society of Computer Owners and PET Enthusiasts, Dallas-Fort Worth TX, 1/90)


The Interface

Commodore Pictures Visible on PC

by Dick Estel

February 26, 2000: Today I achieved a goal I have been wanting to accomplish for about three 
years: I watched a picture that I had scanned on the Commodore appear on my PC.

I had asked some people how to do this a couple of years ago, but the steps they described required 
going through several different formats, and the effort seemed too much with everything else I have 
to do.

In late February I posted the question to the Commodore MaiLink list, and received a number of 
replies within a few hours. Several people suggested using Jim Collette's geoPCX, a program I 
already had. This program should convert geoPaint files and GEOS albums to the PCX format, 
which can be read by nearly any PC graphic program in use today.

Jeff Adolph and I had tested this program when I first downloaded it from Q-Link about eight years 
ago. We accomplished the file format transfer via the club BBS. To the best of my memory, I sent 
GEOS files that had been changed to CBM SEQ format with the GEOS program Convert. He then 
used geoPCX and successfully converted an album of photos.

I had tried geoPCX, but it would not run on the PC, either under Windows or from DOS. After 
posting my question, I was told that it runs in GEOS. However, I question this. My memory is 
pretty good, and I am 87% sure it is intended to run on a PC (or at least an old PC from the early 
90's before Windows).
I tried converting it to GEOS, with no success. I tried running it from BASIC, again with no luck. 
So I proceeded to plan B, which was to download several conversion programs from C64 Com 
(http://www.c64.com). Among the items offered are tools for use in moving between PC and C=, 
and the program that did the job is CBM2BMP, found at 
http://www.fairlight.to/tools/pc.html.

After converting geoPaint files to CBM SEQ files, and transferring them to a PC readable disk via 
Big Blue Reader, I ran this program, and was presented with a simple interface. Shortly after I 
clicked on LOAD CBM, my picture started to appear. I then clicked on SAVE BMP and voila! it is 
available for further manipulation.

I found that my usual photo editing program, ArcSoft Photo Studio, did not recognize this bitmap 
(BMP) format; however, my premier graphic viewer, ACDSee loaded and converted the files to 
.JPG. Now if we wanted to get carried away, we could use one of the new JPG converters for 
Commodore to get the file back into a non-GEOS Commodore format!

All of the above took place on my Compaq Presario. A few days later I got a partly-new 
"homemade" PC from a friend at work (we put the Zip drive and CD-ROM drive from the Compaq 
into this one). When I started to convert another batch of geoPaint files, I got an unpleasant 
surprise.

When CBM2BMP converts a file, it displays a view of it, about half the normal size. During 
conversion, the display was broken up into pieces like one of those computer picture puzzles. The 
saved file was not scrambled, but the bottom 20% was missing. I tried converting some of the files 
I had originally done, and had the same problem.

Since I had set up my Compaq with an old monitor I had around, I went back and tried the program 
on it...and everything worked fine. The new one has the same operating system and virtually the 
same software, but there is something about it that CBM2BMP does not like. Email to the author 
has gone unanswered so far.

Looking for an alternative, I downloaded ConGo, a highly touted program that allows a lot of 
manipulation of graphics, and converts both ways. With little documentation, it took a while to 
figure out how to use it, but once I did, it converted the files but not cleanly. Around the edges of 
each image or text object, there is what looks like a shimmering effect (in fact it's just a few extra 
grey pixels). Email to the author brought the suggestion to save as BMP files instead of JPG. I did 
this; then saved the BMP as JPG in a photo editing program, and got a clean conversion. This 
program also successfully converted color Koala files and a color geoPaint file.

The graphics throughout the newsletter are converted from pictures I scanned into the Commodore 
with the Handyscanner, then converted to geoPaint.

To see more such pictures, visit http://home.att.net/~rmestel/geos.html (you must have a graphical 
web browser). (Commodore users can get these scanned files from me in GEOS format for a 
modest price.)


ALL CAPS VS. UPPER/lower CASE

by Rolf Miller

Correspondence is occasionally seen typed in all caps. In fact, several variously named fonts 
substitute smaller upper case letters in place of the normal lower case characters. When those who 
use all upper case letters are asked why the preference, the answer usually reflects the idea that it's 
easier to read. 

Those who read for a living disagree with them. Publications that accept manuscripts for 
consideration have editors who read submissions. However, these publications have Writer's 
Guidelines detailing form. Material that does not follow those guidelines is rejected forthwith. One 
of the requirements invariably found in Writer's Guidelines is: use normal fonts, preferably Pica, 
though Elite is acceptable. Also undesirable is dot-matrix printing. Material submitted using script 
or other unorthodox fonts, and all upper case letters are rejected. The reason given is readability. A 
study of the evolution of writing finds that the development of lower case letters is rather recent. 
Upper case characters used to be the norm. And it's thought that readability is what prompted 
creation of the lower case alphabet. Simply, it is easier for the eye to recognize words using lower 
case characters. While letters are distinguished by their shape, a look at the upper case alphabet 
sees that all letters fill the same vertical space.

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

THUS, WORDS TYPED IN UPPER CASE POSSESS NO DISTINCTION AS VIEWED ON THE 
VERTICAL PLANE. CONSEQUENTLY, IN DECIPHERING WORDS TYPED IN CAPS, THE 
EYE IS LIMITED TO THE SHAPE OF THE INDIVIDUAL LETTERS.

A look at the lower case alphabet sees that all characters do not occupy the same vertical space.

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

As a result, words typed in lower case not only possess distinctive characters, but the varying 
vertical dimensions often gives words a look all their own. Consequently, in addition to the shape 
of characters, the eye also learns to recognize the distinctive appearance of lower case words.

(From Civic 64/128, August 1999)


C=Scape

By Robert Bernardo

"O.K., I want you to lie in the middle of the road."

I looked incredulously at Chris Beck, the Wired photographer who had come from New York City. 
"O.K.!" I replied, and I obeyed his order. From my sitting position on the asphalt, I lay down 
full-length upon the cold, slightly damp asphalt of the street. Ah, the things I do to promote 
Commodore!

It all started back on October 2 and 3 at the Santa Clara Convention Center. I was attending the 
Vintage Computer Festival, manning a table there for the Fresno Commodore User Group. With me 
on that first day were Ed Hart, president of the Fremont-Union City-Newark-Hayward User Group, 
and Todd Elliott, programmer of demos, utilities, and GEOS enhancements. It was the first time 
that we had a table at the show, and I had come with many things to demonstrate in front of the 
crowd --Wheels, the SuperCPU, Loadstar, various European demos, and various 
magazines/newsletters, like GO64!, Commodore Scene, Commodore Zone, the Interface, and 
C=Voyages. I had brought a C128D set-up, a C64 set-up, a European Plus/4 set-up, and a European 
C128D. Todd had brought his high-powered C128D system, complete with CMD HD, FD-4000, 
RAMLink, and SuperCPU, while Ed had brought various disks and a SX-64.

Morning discussion sessions were held in the meeting rooms upstairs, and when they were over, 
then the doors of our "flea market" room would be opened. When the doors finally opened at 2 
p.m., to our surprise, hundreds of people poured through. We had the enviable position of being the 
first table by the door, and everyone seemed to stop at ours first. Overwhelmed, Todd, Ed, and I 
tried to answer all of the questions of the people who were lining up.

"What's that?"

"That's a SuperCPU. It's a 20 mhz. accelerator for the Commodore."

"Could I buy one here?"

"Uh, sorry... you'll have to buy it from Creative Micro Designs. We're just a demonstration table. 
...But here's their catalog, and here's a membership application for our club."

"What's that?"

"It's a hard drive for the Commodore."

"I didn't know there were hard drives for the Commodore. Can I buy it?"

"Uh, sorry... you'll have to buy it from Creative Micro Designs. We're just a demonstration table. 
...But here's their catalog, and here's a membership application for our club."

"What's that? It looks like the Amiga desktop or Atari desktop."

"It's Wheels for the Commodore 64/128. It's the operating system upgrade for GEOS 64/128."

"Could I buy it here?"

"Uh, sorry... you'll have to buy it from Maurice Randall, the creator of it. We're just a 
demonstration table. ...But here's his address, and here's a membership application for our club."

"What's that?"

"That's a SX-64. It's a transportable C64, disk drive, and monitor."

"We didn't know that was made. Can we buy it?"

"You'll have to talk to Ed over there. That's his machine."

"What's that?"

"That's CAD-M, a multi-color CAD program for the Commodore 64."

"Is it for sale here?"

"Uh, sorry... you'll have to buy it from Loadstar. It was on issue #150. We're just a demonstration 
table. ...But here's Fender Tucker's address, and here's a membership application for our club."

Along with the slew of interested new and veteran fans came the reporters. A reporter and video 
cameraman from the magazine, Dr. Dobb's Journal. A reporter and photographer from Shift 
magazine. A reporter from Wired magazine. Dr. Dobb's was first up...

"Look straight at the camera. What made you come to the Vintage Computer Festival?"

"We came to promote Commodore 8-bit computing to the public. ...That we're still around. ...That 
our club is the strongest in the South San Joaquin Valley."

"No, don't look at me. Look at the camera. Why do you still use a Commodore?"

The questions kept coming. Then a little while later came the Shift reporter.

"Why did you come to the Vintage Computer Festival?"

I gave the same answer that was given to Dr. Dobb's Journal.

"Why are you still into Commodore gaming?"

Huh, a new question! And one that I wasn't prepared for.

"Well, it brings back a time when things were more innocent, when all you had to do was..."

I was reaching for answers off the top of my head. I wasn't really an intense gamer, but the reporter 
kept asking me gaming questions. Looking for a way out, I finally sent her off to Ed. (Sorry, Ed!) 
The Shift photographer took out his Hasseblad and wanted a few pictures of me. Well, at least, I 
thought it was going to be a few.

"Put your arms down to the side. Look at the camera. O.K., good. Now look over the camera. O.K.. 
Now look to the left. Good. Now look to the right. O.K.. Don't smile. Look serious. Good. Now 
cross your arms. Look straight at the camera..."

Ay-yi-yi, he took more and more. Finally, he finished and went on his way to photograph other 
attendees at the show.

The Wired reporter was last. Basically, he had the same questions as the other reporters, and I gave 
him the same answers, well-practiced by now. Satisfied, he departed, and I breathed a sigh of relief 
that the reporters had gone. Now I go back to demoing the software/hardware to the crowd and talk 
a bit more to Ed and Todd before they left for the day.

Sunday was quieter. About half as many people came into the flea market room as the previous 
day. Clark Murphy from FUNHUG had come to help me out that day, Ed having gone to attend 
some other computer show and Todd having to return to Southern California. The Shift 
photographer was still buzzing around.

"Haven't I seen you before?" he joked with me, but he didn't stay and went in search of fresh 
fodder. The other newspeople were long gone.

After that weekend, I thought I was finished with being in the limelight. I had given my answers to 
the reporters. I would be troubled no more.

Wrong! A few weeks later a Shift editor called all the way from Toronto, Canada in order to 
confirm a few things, e.g., how was my name exactly spelled, how many members were in the club, 
what was the motto of the club? I duly answered all the questions and again thought that was the 
end of that.

Wrong! Mark Frauenfelder, the Wired reporter who had gone to VCF, e-mailed, saying that he 
wanted to come to one of our meetings to do a follow-up. Well, this was a big deal, and I 
telephoned as many members as possible to come to the December meeting so that we could show 
our Commodore solidarity. I planned an exciting, jam-packed meeting in order to show him the 
interesting things we did. Mark was a no-show. I thought that was the end of that.

Wrong! Wired called again, this time wanting verification of certain points (how do you spell your 
name, how many members in the club, what is the motto of the club, etc.) and wanting a time to set 
up a photo shoot. Skeptical, I voiced my complaints about Mark not showing up at our meeting and 
my doubts whether such a shoot was really true. Carolyn, the editor, assured me that this was true 
and that they wanted to photograph me the first week of January. Well, that would be after my 
Christmas vacation; I'd be back to work by then. We mutually agreed on Friday, January 7, 3:30 
p.m., after school let out.

I had some Commodores in the classroom, but I wanted to show off the home C128D with multiple 
drives, SuperCPU, and 20-inch monitor. I decided I would set up the home system in the 
classroom. The photographer would have to be satisfied with that.

January 7 arrived. The classroom was ready. The equipment was set up. The photographer was late. 
From his cell phone, he confirmed the directions to the school, and I told him that he was still an 
hour away. Finally, he rolled in, a bit before 5 o'clock.

Chris and his assistant, Kyoko, immediately started pulling equipment out of the Ford Explorer.

"We're losing the light," he told me. "Is there a sign on the road that says 'school' around here?"

"There's one by Fremont School a couple of blocks from here."

"Great. Let's go."

Surprised that he wasn't going to film me in the classroom, I obediently walked with him and 
Kyoko, showing him where the word, school, had been painted in yellow on the street. Looking at 
the site, he took a minute to scan the scene with his photographer's eyes. Then he knew what to do.

"I want you to sit on the street, right there by where it says school."

Here I was in my good school clothes... and he wanted me to sit in the street? Without protest, I did 
what he said. He took out a Mamiya RZ67 and adjusted the focus while Kyoko took the light 
readings.

"O.K., cross your legs and look at the camera. O.K., purse your lips but smile. Purse them tighter. 
Oh, you can give a better smile than that. O.K., now just put your legs out straight. Look at the 
camera. Look over here to the side."

Roll after roll was shot. Car after car passed by. Fortunately, Kyoko diverted the traffic while the 
shoot was going on.

"Bernardo!" screamed some former student as he drove by. Another teacher and his wife drove by 
and parked at their house just a few doors away, all the time staring at the activity going on in their 
street. I thought, "Oh, boy!"

Nearly 6 o'clock... daylight was nearly gone. Streetlights glinted through the trees. We'd have to go 
indoors by now, right? Wrong!

"Hmm, o.k., sit up now and look directly into the headlights of the my car."

This was Chris' idea? I stared at the lights just 10 feet away from me as he set up the camera, as 
Kyoko took the light readings, and as he starting firing away again. At last, he was finished.

"Let's go back to the classroom and take some more shots."

The day wasn't over for me yet!
"No, I don't like the computer there. Can you move it?"

I moved the entire system to another table.

"I don't like the photos on the wall. Can you cover them with those posters there?"

I hid the student photos.

"O.K., increase the brightness of the screen."

I turned up the brightness and contrast of the monitor until it was glaringly bright.

"Put a game on the computer and play with it."

I disappointingly removed Wheels and loaded up Super Mario Bros..

Many shots later, he was finished. While he and Kyoko packed away their equipment and helped 
me with my equipment, I told them the way to some restaurants.

"Aren't there any good, non-chain restaurants in this town?"

"Uh, not here in Corcoran. Why don't you follow me to Visalia? There are some trendy restaurants 
along Main Street."

We drove off with me leading the way in my car. We found a nice California/Italian restaurant, and 
Chris treated me to dinner, while we talked about computers, photography, and travel. ...And he 
had called me, "Baby", only once during the entire photo shoot.


Magazine of the Future 
Looks Back

Wired magazine started out, to the best of this writer's recollection, as a magazine about the 
Internet. Whether this memory is foggy or not, the magazine has grown from an ordinary 1/8 inch 
thick publication to a half-inch thick monthly that focuses largely on the future, and the movers and 
shakers who are leading us there.

On its web site, Wired declares:
"Wired magazine is the journal of record for the future. It's daring. Compelling. Innovative. 
Courageous. Insightful. It speaks not just to high-tech professionals and the business savvy, but 
also to the forward-looking, the culturally astute, and the simply curious."

How the Commodore fits into this vision only the editors of Wired can know. Nonetheless, a visit 
last fall to the Vintage Computer Faire in Santa Clara by a free lance author who frequently 
contributes to Wired led to the strange events in Corcoran described by Robert Bernardo in his 
column this month. 

Overall the tone of the article is respectful. Those who continue to stick with the computing 
technology of the 1980's are described as "retroactivists." The article recognizes several subgroups. 
Many people continue to use their Commodore (Amiga, Osborne, TRS80, whatever) because it still 
does what they need it to do.

Others could be more appropriately called collectors or archivists. They have computers that they 
don't use (and sometimes can't use, due to malfunctions). But they're cool because they're from the 
old days, like a classic car.

Another approach is that of NewDeal, a company that provides upgraded software that will run on 
pre-Pentium PC's. As new programs require more computing horsepower, many users are "stuck on 
an upgrade merry-go-round that forces them to shell out $2500 or so very couple of years for a new 
machine." As NewDeal's CEO, Clive Smith says, "The fact is that those older machines work fine. 
You don't need a Ferari to go to the supermarket."

Here's another quote from the Wired article, on their encounter with our president:

"Why struggle with a machine that has no graphical Web browser? 

'Because it's an old friend,' says Robert Bernardo, patting the monitor of his C64. I've encountered 
Bernardo, president of the Fresno Commodore User Group, at the Vintage Computer Festival in 
Santa Clara, California. The club's motto, Bernardo tells me, is 'Taking 8 Bits to the 21st Century,' 
and the majority of its members use the C64 as their primary computer. 

Lots of diehards are like Bernardo: They use orphaned platforms no longer supported by the 
original manufacturer, and they depend on a network of tiny third-party software and hardware 
developers to keep their machines going."

Finally, here's Wired's summary of the history of Commodore: 

"Commodore VIC20/C64 -  Introduced: 1981; Died: 1992 
Resurrection Hot Spots: Commodore 8-bit server www.hut.fi/Misc/cbm - Vast listing of 
Commodore links, history, and resources; C=Ring www.ncf.carleton.ca/~ag090/cbmring.htm - 
Webring of 170 revivalist sites 

Many teenage hackers in the early '80s got their first exposure to computers with the VIC20 or its 
successor, the Commodore 64. Based on the 8-bit 6510 chip, both computers featured high-quality 
sound capabilities, sprite-based graphics, and the ability to load and save programs on tape."

You can find the entire article on the web at 
http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/

Rounding Decimals

I have a need to round off decimal numbers to various places depending upon how they will be 
used in the program. Is there a simple way to do it? 

Early in the program write:

1 DEF FNR(N)=INT(N/DP+.5)*DP

DEF defines the function FNR(N) to equal the integer result of N/DP+.5 which is then multiplied 
by DP.  The number of decimal places is determined by DP.  DP=.1 gives one place, DP=.01 gives 
two, etc. So, in a later program line like:

100 DP=.01: N=DV: V=FNR(N)

where DV=12.176, V would be made 12.18 because 12.176/.01 yields 1217.6 and +.5 makes it 
1218.1 which INT truncates to 1218 and then multiplying by .01 yields 12.18. Of course, the value 
assigned to N can be held in another numeric variable.

(From CIVIC 64/128 Gazette, May 1997)






OFFICERS and KEYPERSONS
(Area Code 559)

President:	Robert Bernardo 627-2438
Vice President:	Helen Silvas 227-8005
Secretary-Treasurer  Zella Mallard 291-2452
Past President:	Ralph Parrott 229-9912

Board of Trustees:
	Del Contreras 227-5375
	Sandy Dippollet 299-1275
	Chester Sohm 855-8543
	Bill Gilbert 439-8202
	Henry Fry 291-0581

The Interface Editor: Dick Estel 224-4163
Contributing Editors:
Bob Bernardo
Mailing List:	Sandy Dippollet	
Technicians:	Del Contreras, Doug Cunningham
Librarian:	Dick Estel
Programs:	Ralph Parrott
Demo Coordinator:	Helen Silvas
Club Equipment:	Helen Silvas
Store:	Dick Estel
Meeting Place Reservation, Setup & Cleanup: 
	Dick Estel, Zella Mallard & Del Contreras
Ribbon Reinking:	Robert Bernardo

On-Line Contacts:

FCUG home page-- is http://videocam.net.au/fcug/
or http://home.att.net/~rmestel/fcug.html
Robert Bernardo rbernardo@value.net

Editor's Internet Exchange Offer

We'll be happy to send any of the articles in our newsletter to other clubs via 
E-mail, to save the hassle of typing. 
And we'd appreciate the same from those clubs that have access to Internet E-
mail. Send requests to: 
dickestel@att.net.




Fresno PC Users Group
Meetings 1st Monday of each month, 7:30 p.m. at Ramada Inn, Shaw & Fresno.
Recorded information phone: 496 3974
Membership: 434 0941 or 225 8824
6751 N Blackstone # 395
Fresno CA 93710



THE SMALL PRINT

The Fresno Commodore User Group/Sixty-Fourum is a club whose members share an 
interest in Commodore 8-bit 
computers. Our mailing address is 3487 E Terrace Ave, Fresno, CA 93703. We meet 
at 10 a.m., the first Saturday of the 
month,  in the Sarah McCardle Room of the main library, 2420 Mariposa, between N 
& O St.  See the back page for a map. 
The Board of Directors meets immediately following the general meeting. The 
meetings generally include demonstrations, 
discussion, drawings, and individual help.

Dues are $12 for 12 months. New members receive a "New Member Disk" containing a 
number of useful utilities. 
Members receive a subscription to this newsletter, access to a public domain 
disk library, technical assistance, and reduced 
prices on selected software.

The Interface is sent to our members and other Commodore Clubs on an exchange 
basis. Clubs publishing newsletters with 
informative content are encouraged to add us to their mailing list. Permission 
to reproduce content from The Interface is 
granted provided credit is given to the source and, when identified, the author. 
Club members are encouraged to submit 
articles, tips or ideas for articles. To insure inclusion, any material should 
be submitted prior to the 15th.

Disclaimer: The club, its officers, members, and authors are not responsible for 
the accuracy of the contents of The 
Interface or the results of actions based on its contents.

Our disk library contains over 2000 public domain programs for the C64 and C128. 
Members are entitled to copies of these 
disks at no cost if a blank disk is provided. We do not deal with pirated, 
violent or obscene programs. Please call our 
attention to any programs found in our library which may violate these 
standards. 

Sales and Services:
Disk Notchers $5
Disk drive trouble diagnosis and minor repair: $10 (members only)
Computer Reset switches: $7 (members only)
Ribbon reinking: $1 (members only, 2 per month max)
31 graphics disks: $3 each, $50 for all, plus $1 per disk if to be mailed.
Blank disks: $.50 each, 25 for $10
The Write Stuff 64: $12 ($14 for non-members)
The Write Stuff 128 $16 ($18 for non-members)
The Write Stuff Spell Checker 64/128: $8 ($10 for 
non-members)
Postage & Handling for mail orders: $1.25


Next meeting
June 3 10 a.m.
Fresno County Library
2420 Mariposa, 
between N & O St.
(Sarah McCardle Room - Upstairs)
(for elevator, use main entrance on Mariposa St.)


Fresno Commodore Users Group
3487 E Terrace Ave
Fresno CA 93703



